The equity market is showing an enormous
amount of resilience.
>> Money doesn't want to leave the asset
class of equities.
>> The beauty of the US is we have the most
robust, deepest, [music]
broadest markets in the world. You have
a very broad equity market. There are
always good valuations in the equity
market.
>> If this falls off the tracks, I think
you're going to see a major market
correction. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with [music] Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday, building on gains, NASDAQ
futures [music] in Shinkaya, adding to
this week's bounce as a record-breaking
SpaceX IPO is set to be well over
subscribed. OpenAI is gearing up to
follow, filing confidentially for an IPO
of its own potentially later this year.
>> Good morning, John. Good to see you. And
yeah, the me trifecta of mega IPOs this
year are definitely taking shape. First,
we've got SpaceX uh pricing this week,
Anthropic, and now Open AI, although it
very much feels like OpenAI has lost
whatever lead it had over [music]
Anthropic with the funding rounds uh
putting it at a lower valuation and kind
of not getting first dibs on that wall
of institutional investor [music] cash.
It doesn't seem like OpenAI is in a
hurry at all here. The quote coming from
the company gives us the option to go
public sooner [music] if that ends up
being best. We've all talked about this
race for capital. I was listening to Way
Lee of Black Rockck a little bit earlier
on this morning. When does the race for
capital become a competition for capital
and when does that competition for
capital start to show up in this market
in a more material way? [music]
>> Yeah, and it feels like it's already a
competition for attention if nothing
else. Um, I did find it interesting that
the company said it may be a while
before it goes public because there are
things the company said that we want to
do that are likely easier as a private
company. Didn't go into any details
though. [music]
>> We've had some push back in this equity
market. Bank of America, Sophia
Subramania making some headlines in the
last 24 hours. Raining on the bull
parade. Futures are up this morning by
0.5% on the S&P. Equities are doing
okay. Still 20% around 20% up from the
lows of March. We've had 10 price target
upgrades on the street since then. At
least 10. And Sevita says this, "Too
many red flags, take profits." Goes on
to say, "Equity supply has increased.
Buybacks as a [music] percent of market
cap have slowed and capex as a percent
of operating cash flow for hyperscalers
is forecast to reach nearly 100% by year
end. That's up from 40 just a few years
ago. Scarlet, some massive changes in
[music] this equity market. It's a huge
contrast and you know things are getting
frothy when she's making comparisons to
how the spread between the best and
worst performing groups within the tech
sector is at the widest since February
of 2000. [music] We know what happened
in February 2000.
>> Sentiment not great right now in this
economy. Need to build on that as well.
Consumer sentiment rock bottom. US small
business optimism [music]
falling to the lowest since October
2024.
These are the surveys we need to follow.
Sevita was talking about some of this
small business confidence now rolling
over. You see it in consumer sentiment.
[music] Hypers scalers large tech large
cap tech doing fantastically well.
That's not the story here. Everything
else in the economy just a bit [music]
of a weak spot.
>> Yeah, it's a bifurcation of the economy.
You can call it a K-shaped economy, but
companies feel it just as much as
consumers do. Those rising oil prices,
the higher costs are hitting a lot of
the companies at a time when rates are
going higher.
>> Scarlet Fu with us through the next few
hours. Looking forward to it. Scarlet,
welcome to the program. Equity futures
right now. As I say, bouncing back on
Monday, some follow through this Tuesday
morning, up another 0.5%.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Jack Kefrey [music] of JP Morgan Asset
Management as tech stocks rebound.
General Karen Gibson of Academy
Securities as Israel and Iran pledge to
end attacks and Tom Ford of Maxim Group
as OpenAI files to go public. We begin
this out with the IPO pipeline heating
up and semi staging a comeback. Jack
Kefrey of JP Morgan Asset Management
calling it a moderation Monday bounce
writing this one was even more likely
given the sharpness of the selloff. Jack
joins us now for more. Jack, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> You're still constructive on this equity
market, Jack?
>> I am still constructive on this equity
market.
>> What makes you constructive?
>> Earnings. This is really I think an ear
earnings driven story. We came into we
got through last year with a mid- teens
earnings gain several years into an into
an economic expansion. Now we're looking
at 22 plus% earnings growth for this
year. Um and looking to next year, we
think that turns into still another mid-
teen sort of earnings gain.
>> The biggest push back we've had so far
to earnings is technicals. Technicals
just feel very stretch. Friday in the
minds of some was inevitable and
there'll be further follow through.
>> I think that the issue is one of if you
ask me what's going to happen in the
next 15 minutes, I have no particular
insights. If you ask me what happens
over 15 to 24 months, I'm going to come
back to the interplay between earnings
and expectations. Were expectations a
bit high yet? Look at the collapse in
the VIX. Look at how tight credit
spreads are, but they're certainly
telling you not a lot to be worried
about here. So, I'll come back to if we
continue seeing positive earnings
revisions. There are still legs to the
story. Will we have bounces along the
way? Will we have some setbacks? Will we
find something new like, oh, I hadn't
thought about that? Inevitably. And I
think that lends it to a situation where
the pullbacks will be short, but they
will be sharp.
>> You have tech and tech adjacent sectors,
and of course, the earning season was
super for a lot of those. What about
everyone else? What about the ones that
aren't getting the benefit of the tech
buildout?
>> Well, I think you have to when we think
about the scale 700, 800, 900, you know,
a couple trillion dollars in capital
spending over the next few years in all
likelihood,
not all of that actually winds up going
into semiconductors. You start off by
having to build a shell. Then you have
to put an HRA system in place. Then you
actually have to consume a lot of cap
copper in order to actually tie that
data center to the grid. You have to
build the grid. you know, we have
electric demand growing for the first
time since the 70s or materially growing
since the 70s. And so I do think that
there is maybe not not trickle down,
that's a different part of the economy,
but but a trickle through. And I think
it's important to consider the interplay
between what people say and what people
do. And when we think about the scale of
backlog growth, it would suggest things
are actually a little bit more robust
than just asking people, are you happy?
>> So that filters through to the top line.
Does it filter through to the bottom
line as well with an era of increased
expenses for all these companies?
>> You know, I think on the shorter term,
we do have to acknowledge we live in a
world of pretty interestingly high
nominal GDP. When you think about, you
know, the Atlanta Fed survey, GD,
Atlanta Fed survey of GDP now pointing
to 4% growth. You've got the Cleveland
Fed survey of near-term CPI at 4%. you
know, 8% that's pretty a robust
environment we would have in some sense
been thrilled to have in the in the a
decade ago. Um, we are still seeing
positive incremental margin expansion as
companies still have fixed costs that
they're absorbing. And so I do think
that's how you can turn 8% sort of top
lines into 20% earnings gains uh in
terms of companies still making their
assets sweat harder and you know perhaps
with the threat of AI making their
people sweat harder.
>> The Fed has let this run. Some people
might say they've encouraged it. They
reduced interest rates three times last
year, three times the year before that.
Is the Fed about to step in and ruin the
party? [sighs]
>> I'm really happy I'm not on the Fed. um
in terms of having to think about
balancing between the policy pushes and
pulls. You've got a very loud
cheerleader who's going to be very
active uh in social media expressing
what policy they want. And then you've
got a group of equally strongminded
individuals on the Fed board, most of
whom have been indicating they think the
situation requires uh moderating the
punch bowl, if not actively taking it
away in the shorter term.
>> And this headline might moderate the
punch bowl. It just crossed on the
Bloomberg terminal. Taiwan mulling curbs
on AI chip exports to China to align
with the United States. As we try and
digest [snorts] that headline as it just
crosses the Bloomberg terminal, equity
futures taking just a little bit of a
dip. We're still positive on the session
by about a third of 1% on the S&P 500.
That headline crossing just seconds ago.
Taiwan considering curbs on AI chip
exports to China to align with the
United States. Scarlet, the latest on
the Blimbo Terminal this morning. Yeah.
And that that gives you this sense that
Taiwan is going to not bend over
backwards, but make sure it aligns with
the US in order to get the kind of arms
deals and the fulfill those contracts
that it had wanted from the United
States. And we already seen how
President Trump is going to make sure
that he is going to hue to what Xi
Jinping wants in order to be able to
move forward with their trading
relationship too.
>> We'll attempt to bring you more details
on that story in just a moment. Futures
still just about positive on the S&P
500. Let's turn back to the Federal
Reserve. Jack, you mentioned the
cheerleader at the White House. You
alluded to that. Does it make a
difference that a president is calling
for more rate cuts? Does that actually
change our perception of future Fed
policy?
>> I I think that the president is an
active user of the bully pulpit and in
terms of whether it's what he would like
to see in interest rate policy. Clearly,
he did not have the impact that he was
hoping to have in terms of the direction
of rates over the last several months.
He's certainly much more effective in
terms of what he's doing with the oil
market. I think certainly seemingly
every weekend when I talked about, you
know, moderation Monday, I also thought
maybe you would have called yesterday
step back Sunday in terms of remain
calm. Oil prices are going to be going
down any moment now. Um, and effectively
we're seeing that actually follow
through at least right now from a trader
perspective. So let's bring it back to
the equity market because you have
pointed out that energy is the most
interesting sector in the equity market
because it sits at the intersection of
so many different dynamics. How are you
feeling about it right now versus a
month ago?
>> I I think that ultimately the one thing
I can bet oil prices to start is oil
prices are wrong. Um
>> they're wrong.
>> They're wrong. They if you look at the
futures curve they should be trending
lower. I think the question is at what
rate do they trend lower? At the same
time tankers aren't really transiting.
We were reminded the blockade this
morning remains 100% effective and that
means we I think are not paying enough
attention to the actual declines in
physical inventory and that even if you
start actually getting crude flowing
tomorrow, you're 45 days away from
actual new supplies reaching to demand
centers. And so in that environment of
there's very few barrels to be bought,
the possibility of very few barrels to
be bought, you wind up with having these
scenarios where oil might go not to 90,
not to 100, but potentially to 125,
$150.
And that has an inflation knock on. And
that is not something the Fed can can
easily control through thinking about
either rates or money supply.
>> Who seems to understand this better,
short-term traders or long-term
investors? I think that there's probably
an interesting time arbitrage between
the two. Um, where the short-term
traders are looking at, you know, oil
prices easing, they're looking at
airline stocks making all-time new
highs. Forces you to scratch your head
if you think about the possibility of
physical shortages of someone who's
certainly very operationally leveraged
to what fuel prices wind up being or
what they pre-sold their tickets as
being. Um, and so I think that's where
traders are responding to almost
literally tweet by tweet, truth by
truth. Um, versus investors are saying,
"Interesting. I don't really see the
path forward." And yet, as much as you
think about an energy dominance theme,
large oil companies are at least being
very slow with increasing their, you
know, historically the the rule of thumb
is high prices cure high prices. Um, and
yet normally the cure for high prices is
actually increasing supply. No one's
really rushing to increase supply. And I
would suggest over time oil needs to be
higher because I think the world has
realized that it the choke point which
is the straight of Hormuz is probably
unacceptable for the global economy. And
so how do you incentivize more
production out of South America, more
production out of Africa, reroute around
some of the other choke points which is
not just the straight of hormones but
potentially even the Suez Canal
depending on what total victory looks
like in terms of where parties settle
out.
>> Hey Jack, it's good to see you. Thanks
for being here. We appreciate it. Thank
you sir. Jeffrey there of JP Morgan
Asset Management. Pretty punchy line.
Prices are wrong in a commodity market
now. We look like this. Brent crude 9271
down on the session by a little more
than 1%. WTI a break of 90 this morning
8940 and down two percentage points. Up
next on the program in the final throws
of a deal.
>> We're in the final throws of what will
be a very very good deal. It straight
will open up right away. It'll open up
immediately upon signing which could be
in two or three days.
>> Up next we'll catch up with General
Karen Gibson of Academy Securities Plus.
An Marie is down in Washington [music]
DC live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
>> [music]
>> live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. Equities gaining in Monday's
session, adding some weight to the rally
this morning, high up by 0.4% [music]
on the NASDAQ 100, up by 3/4 of 1% this
morning. on the Russell small caps up by
0.9 in the bond [music] market bit of a
turnaround twos tens and 30s twos last
week on Friday new highs for the year
inching higher in yesterday's session
for a little bit on 10 still north of
450 but coming down helped out by this
move 455 on 10's [music] this move in
crude WTI and Brent things just settling
down we're down by 1.6% 6% on Brent, 92.
Just bear in mind about 26 hours ago,
[music] Brent crude had a 98 handle.
Then it started to move lower off those
highs off the back of some encouraging,
more soothing headlines from [music] the
president. How many times has he told us
we're getting closer and closer to a
deal. Under Sylvanas this morning, in
the final throws of a deal.
>> We have uh ongoing negotiations with
Iran and that that hasn't stopped. We're
in the final throws of what will be a
very very good deal that will not allow
in any way, shape or form nuclear
weapons, etc. It's and that the straight
will open up right away. It'll open up
immediately upon signing which could be
in two or three days.
>> Here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump saying peace
talks with Thran are back on track and
promising total victory for the US in
just two weeks. Israel and Iran pledging
to stop the fighting following a flare
up in hostilities over the weekend.
Joining us now in Washington, Bloomberg
Samari AMH. Good morning.
>> Good morning, Jonathan. Well, the
president is still holding on to this
fragile ceasefire in the Middle East and
wants to make sure the negotiations
continue. And last night when he was
briefing us reporters in New York City
before he did head down back to
Washington DC in the White House, he
said two to three days potentially we
could see a breakthrough when it comes
to negotiations. At the same time, many
individuals say, "We've heard this
continuously from this president and yet
we are still in the middle of this
conflict." For a little bit more
clarity, Lieutenant General Karen Gibson
of Academy Securities joins me now in
studio. Lieutenant General, thank you so
much for your time. Good morning. Let's
just start with where we are right now.
How fragile is this ceasefire given the
clashes we saw this week between Thrron
and Israel? So, I think the clashes
between Tran and Israel were probably
the greatest threat to the ceasefire
that we've seen since April 8th. You
know, a considerable escalation. And I'd
say it wasn't just the exchange between
Israel and Iran, but also Iran
escalating on the 3rd of June by
striking purely civilian infrastructure
at the Kuwait International Airport. And
then over the weekend, the one-way
attack drones directed towards
commercial vessels. I think all of that
marked a significant escalation. I'm
grateful that it doesn't look like a
return to full-on war at this time with
both is Iran and Israel standing down.
But I think what it risks as we throw in
now that we're going to try to restrain
Israel and control Hezbollah that the
diplomatic agenda and the things that
need to be negotiated is expanding
faster than diplomats and negotiators
can handle.
>> It feels like red lines continuously
turn pink. M
>> what would be do you think a proper red
line that this administration would say
the regime has broken the ceasefire?
>> Well, I think if we saw significant
casualties either significant civilian
casualties, American casualties, um our
defensive measures at our military bases
in the Middle East have been strong. So,
that's not been an issue. But I think
just something that was really untoward
and again um you know perhaps a purely
civilian target at which there was
significant damage might require
something else. But I think the fact
that the president isn't reacting
kinetically is an indicator that he's he
per his remarks has hopes that these
negotiations are actually going to
deliver something.
>> Does at the same time does this embolden
Iran?
>> Um you mean that we're not retaliating?
Yes. I don't think so. I think there are
some that would argue that the
president's stern words to Netanyahu uh
in the last week or so emboldened Iran
by showing perhaps that there was some
daylight between us and an important
ally. But I'm not sure that our
restraint emboldens him. I think our
restraint is actually a strength. I want
to talk about the straight of moose
because you're giving all of your advice
to clients in the financial services.
How are they thinking about the straight
of moose? We actually have reporting
that some barrels are getting out like
from adnock from the UAE and some
individuals also turning off their
transponders so they're able to get
through what is going on in terms of the
Iranian control of the straight of
Hermoose and then out through the US
blockade.
>> Yeah, certainly some is getting out. As
I understand a lot of it is sailing
through the Omani side of the straight
and with some assistance from the US
without being a formal escort. Um and so
it is not entirely blocked. Um but it's
going to be a long time even under the
best of conditions before that flow
returns to what we saw before the
conflict. And so I think um it's
reasonable to expect that we'll see a
significant slowdown there.
>> Secretary Rubio when he was testifying
in front of Congress talked about how
Iran is mining the straight. Do you know
how much of the straight is still mined?
>> I don't think anyone knows. I think it's
very difficult. You know, it's very
difficult to prove. Um, we are looking
forward to, I think, both France and and
the UK perhaps announcing at an upcoming
G7 meeting a plan to demine after a
peace deal is inked. So, it's going to
take some time before we're able to
prove or disprove the mining.
>> How long does it take to demine the
Straight of Hermoose because there's
2,000 ships stuck
>> and you have to have the confidence as a
vessel to bring your crew through the
Straight of Hermoose and make sure that
it's safe for passage. So I think you
know some of that will also depend on
Iran and the kind of minds that they
tell us they've used. Um you know do can
they narrow down where this should be
examined and and some of it will also be
demonstrated by an ability to transit
freely without any kind of attack.
>> How is Academy Security's thinking about
the fact that the Houthis are now
involved at least when it comes to
targeting Israeli vessels?
>> Sure. So, I've always worried about the
Houthis getting involved and I'm kind of
surprised it took this long, but
grateful. Um, you know, ostensibly they
say they're only going to target Israeli
vessels or vessels that are associated
with Israel, but as we've talked about
before, the decision to sail is a
commercial business decision based on
assessed risk. And I think regardless of
their words, we will see an increasing
number of shippers who just choose to
forego the Red Sea and the potential
risk and sail all the way around the
continent of Africa.
>> Well, right now that's the one real
outlet. Is it your understanding that
the Houthis have not been involved
because they are basically getting
capital from Saudi Arabia?
>> Um, you know, certainly that's an
option. Uh, that's possible. I think uh
I have not seen that evidence, but it
doesn't mean that's not the case. Um, I
think they're probably not getting the
kinds of funding and resources they used
to get from Iran. Uh, they are an
Iranian aligned proxy and I think it's
also important to remember that any of
these proxies are still to an extent
independent actors and while their
interests may be aligned with Iran,
they're not necessarily their puppets.
>> How long do you think we could see
potentially the Red Sea in the Babel
Mandem Strait becoming another choke
point that vessels really need to be
concerned about?
>> Yeah. So I think that you know the
Houthis have proved reluctant to get
engaged and that their recent
involvement was really driven by Israeli
action against Hezbollah in southern
Lebanon. Um prospects for peaceful
solution in Lebanon could u take a
while. Uh and really I think is the new
wild card that we've introduced. So, we
started out, you know, our our
overwhelming objective to control Iran's
nuclear ambitions. Now, we've added,
okay, we got to unstick the straight and
now there's a third bucket of things to
negotiate, and that's related to
Lebanon, Hezbollah, and Israel.
>> But that's because the Iranians have
demanded that.
>> Yes. Yes. Again, they've they've the I
can't it's an incredibly complex
negotiation at this point, but I agree.
Yes, it's Iran that have insisted that
this also be part of the talks. Do you
think that this administration is giving
up on some of their red lines? President
now just talks about nuclear weapons,
but for years it's been three major
issues and you just mentioned a few of
them. Nuclear weapons as well as not
providing funding to proxies as well as
ending their ballistic missile program.
>> Exactly. Those were our three principal
buckets going in. I think this is
another one of the asymmetries and
frankly a concern for Israel that we
might settle for lesser concessions
regarding missiles and proxies. We're
not within range of missiles and proxies
and Israel and our Gulf partners live in
that area and so I think it is entirely
possible that or at least the Israelis
may believe it's possible that we will
come to a negotiation that doesn't quite
meet their requirements in those areas.
There's been a lot of reporting about
tense phone conversations between
Netanyahu and President Trump. What do
you make of these phone calls and this
reporting?
>> Well, it's hard to say. I mean,
certainly the president the president's
comments are often unpredictable whether
it's to the press.
>> He's saying he calls the shots. Do you
think he's actually calling the shots
right now? Well, you know, Israel is a
an important ally and Israel is reliant
on the United States for many things,
but they are a sovereign nation and
Benjamin Netanyahu is a head of state
who can make his own decisions.
>> I just want to quickly briefly ask you
about this idea that Taiwan may actually
get more in line with the United States.
We have fresh reporting when it comes to
export curbs to China. How many people
are still asking about what's going on
in the Taiwan Strait given the fact that
we have this conflict in the Middle
East? Yeah. Well, I know Peter Chur at
Academy Securities pays attention to
this and I think that's a great point.
It's important not to get so fixated
with these tactical developments that
really don't change a lot strategically,
but it's it's, you know, uh, you know,
like children on a soccer ball. It's
where all the attention is, but there
are so many other things that we need to
be paying attention to geopolitically
that will affect markets.
>> Lieutenant General, thank you so much
for your time this morning. Jonathan,
that was Lieutenant General, of course,
Karen Gibson of Academy Securities.
Interesting she's saying there.
Everyone's focused, of course, on what's
going on in the Middle East, but you
can't forget, of course, China, a
massive looming cloud in terms of
adversaries for the United States.
>> Without a doubt that is in mind, Amarie,
big question. Did you get any sleep last
night?
>> I got two hours of sleep last night,
Jonathan. Yeah, but I mean, it was worth
it. It would have been more worth it if
the Knicks had won. So, that was that
was disappointing. But the garden was
absolutely
electric yesterday. Just unbelievable.
>> Talk about getting lucky. Amber in the
White House press pool and you get to go
[music] to the Knicks game.
>> Yeah. I wish I was there. Um neither of
us stayed up to watch this game.
>> It was quite um lustily attended by all
the all the star wattages [music]
of New York City and the US.
>> I think I was in bed before the game
even started. Up next on the program, we
catch up with Tom Ford of Maxim Group as
OpenAI joins the rush to go public.
>> [music]
>> Big week ahead [music] really gets going
tomorrow morning. 8:30 Eastern time
tomorrow morning. CPI, the last big CPI
print going into the Fed's next meeting.
Kevin Walsh's first big decision. More
[music] on that in just a moment. Then
later in the week, SpaceX should begin
trading on Friday morning. Looking
forward to that. A major record-breaking
IPO on the horizon and more still to
come. We'll spend some time on that in
the next 10 minutes or so. So, that's
the week ahead. Let's get to the
markets. Equities pushing higher
following Friday's losses. Futures up
again this morning by 0.4% on the
NASDAQ. Up by 3/4 of 1% on Friday. Worst
day of the year for the NASDAQ 100.
Worst [music] day since April of last
year. On Monday, best day of the month.
And we're adding some weight to the
bounce back. In the bond market, yields
still near [music] the highs of the
year. On twos around 415, on 10s around
455, and some changes to the outlook at
a few banks, including from Goldman
Sachs, no longer expecting the Fed to
lower interest rates this year. That's
David Miracle over at [music] Goldman.
BNP joining the program later. James
Egooff saying, "We now expect the Fed to
reverse 2025's three insurance rate cuts
at sequential meetings beginning in
December." So that's a hike, another
hike, and another hike, and maybe even
more than that. We'll spend some time on
that. 30s this morning, still holding on
to five. And in the commodity market,
let's spend some time on crude. This
time yesterday around 4:00 a.m. Eastern
time to kick off the trading week. We
were talking about a 98 handle on Brent.
This morning, we're down to 92, 9263,
and down on the session by 1.7%. WTI
down by two. It's a breaking 90 to the
downside, 8930.
Scarlet Fu, this president keeps
promising [music] us a deal that we
haven't seen yet and we've had the
promise of a deal on the table now for
the best part of two [music] months.
>> Yeah, we've been here before and it
feels like oil markets and investors are
accustomed to this as well, which is why
it seems like the equity market just
dismisses any possibility of [music]
what's going on in Iran because they
take it out, they remove it as a factor
and focus on the good things like
earnings.
>> April 17th, the straight was going to
reopen and then the straight did not
reopen [music] and the straight is still
all but closed over in the Middle East.
And to Scarlet's point, we've put that
issue in a box and just kind of left it
there. Is it going to come back out and
be a factor in this Marcus story? On our
radar this morning, President Donald
Trump saying peace talks with Iran are
back on track with a deal just around
the corner.
>> We're in the final throws of what will
be a very, very good deal. The straight
will open up right away. It'll open up
immediately upon signing, which could be
in two or three days.
>> Israel [snorts] and Iran agreeing to end
attacks after training missile strikes.
Elsewhere, the race to go public heating
up. Open AAI confidentially filing for
an IPO setting its sights on a listing
as soon as this fall. Elsewhere, SpaceX
set to make its trading debut on Friday.
It's offering already well overs
subscribed orders exceeding $10 billion
are said to be piling up. And finally,
Apple going allin on AI, unveiling its
next generation of software.
Some appear to be racing forward,
seemingly pursuing AI for the sake of
AI. We believe that truly helpful AI
must be centered around you and your
needs. This means integrating AI deep
into the products you use every day. The
announcement headlined by a redesigned
version of Siri failing to impress
investors concerned with its long
delayed AI strategy. The stock down
yesterday almost 2% down again this
morning Scarlet by 0.2.
>> Well, it feels very much like we've been
here before as well because two years
ago Apple promised an AI enabled Siri
but didn't deliver. So now they've come
out and said AI uh infused Siri is going
to be remade into an app and it's going
to be doing different things doing
things differently thanks to Google's
Gemini technology which it has licensed.
So the question is will this get people
to buy the latest version of the iPhone?
Will it get developers to create new
programs tied to this new AI enabled
series?
>> Throwing some shade at competition as
well with that quote. Some appear to be
racing forward seemingly pursuing AI for
the sake of AI. Do you think we're
throwing some shade at the amount of
capex we've seen?
>> Perhaps. I mean, a Apple has been
rewarded, some might say, by investors
for not chasing all that capex, right?
They're not spending the hundreds of
billions of dollars to build out their
AI. They've been delayed, but in a way,
when they're ready to step in is when
they're ready to to actually move
forward.
>> Stock is down in the pre-market by 0.2%.
Let's stick with tech. Open AAI
confidentially filing for an IPO,
joining longtime rival Anthropic in the
race to go public. The company releasing
a statement saying, quote, "We have not
decided on timing yet. It may be a
while. This gives us the option to go
public sooner if that ends up being
best." Tom Ford of Maxim Group joins us
now for more. Tom, welcome to the
program. What do you think they mean by
that last line, the option if it's the
best way forward? Is this IPO not
guaranteed this year?
>> Yeah. So, the way that I think about it,
Jonathan, is that I would say that they
have to go public with Anthropic going
public. And what's interesting now is if
you're a a hyperscaler and you have
large contracts outstanding to open AAI
and anthropic, I would be very
encouraged at the prospect of both of
them going public. So perhaps they want
to have some optionality on timing, but
I think with Anthropic going public,
open AI needs to go public and sooner
the better.
>> Tom, let's talk about the time and the
race to go public. How big is this
window and how much capacity do we have
to absorb IPOs this large this quickly?
>> So Jonathan reminds me somewhat of Uber,
Airbnb and Door Dash but at uh you know
market caps that are more like Invidia,
Amazon and Apple. So it is kind of you
know very interesting and unique and I
would say that the timing suggests to me
as long as the capital markets remain
open to these really massive market caps
it be curious to see how SpaceX trades
and opens on Friday then I think that's
the opportunity. I also think the
backdrop is getting a little more
challenging. When you think about the
market selloff on Friday, it was a lot
of concerns on artificial intelligence
and you're seeing a lot of examples of
not in my backyard as far as adding new
data centers and you're even seeing some
consumer push back where they're
focusing on search engines that are less
using AI as another blowback. So I think
that the environment is also important
from a enterprise standing uh spending
standpoint and a consumer perception of
AI for these very large AI companies to
go public.
>> Tom, as part of its explanation that it
may be a while before it goes public, uh
OpenAI also said there are things we
want to do that are likely easier as a
private company. What are some of those
things? So, generally speaking,
Charlotte, I would say that uh it may be
easier on a short-term basis to do
additional capital raises uh without the
scrutiny of being a public company. So,
perhaps they want to do additional
funding rounds ahead of that IPO. Uh but
I think the big bonus for any company uh
before coming public is not having the
scrutiny of being a publicly traded
company, not having to go in front of
investors on a quarterly basis and
explain your business model, things of
that nature. So I do think that there
are some advantages of being private uh
for extended period of time for open AI
and anthropic in that regard.
>> Our reporting shows that open AAI missed
some internal revenue and user growth
targets. is part of the reason why it's
not in any particular rush to go public
is because they want to make sure they
get back on track and make sure that
they exceed those targets before they
present and open their books to the
public.
>> So, it could be a balancing act like
you're talking about. On one hand, they
want to go public as soon as possible
given anthropic going public. On the
other hand, they want to make sure that
the uh you know revenue the operating
metrics look as good as possible to
enable them to go public at as high a
valuation as possible. So I would say
it's a balancing act.
>> They're all spending a lot of money,
Tom, and they're raising a lot of
capital in the meantime both in debt and
equity. One company, one major tech firm
is sitting a lot of this out. Tom
Scarlet and I were just talking about
it, Apple. Where does the Apple strategy
fit in here, Tom?
So, I was somewhat disappointed,
Jonathan, that John Turnis didn't make
an appearance at the keynote speech for
the developers conference. I would have
liked to have heard what he had to say.
And when I think about John Turnis and
his focus has been hardware, what will
his software strategy be? Will they be
relying on Google solely on a short-term
basis to prop up their AI related
efforts or is that a long-term solution?
So, I think you've nailed it when you
talk about Apple's somewhat benefited
from the fact that they haven't gotten
to the arms race from a huge capex
spend, but I also think they're
benefiting because consumers are using
their devices uh to engage with AI. And
as long as consumers continue to use
Apple's hardware to engage with AI, I
think the stock and the company will be
more than okay.
>> Tom, where do you think the strategy has
gone wrong on the Southwest side under
Tim Cook? Well, I think that you could
say that uh some investors are perhaps
more concerned than I am that having
this level of involvement from Google in
the company's AI efforts is in some ways
giving Google the keys to the kingdom.
Uh I think the huge advantage that Apple
has is the installed base. Billions of
installed devices on a global basis.
They obviously have tremendous data from
the consumers who are using those
devices. uh and to what extent is Google
going to have that information and I
think that's why uh and some investors
are perhaps more concerned than I am
>> in terms of the upgrade cycle this is a
lot of um what is driving Apple's share
price this idea that if Apple gets this
AI infused Siri correctly then people
will upgrade to the next iPhone that
allows it allows them to use and access
this AI um what are you looking for AI
uh infused Siri to deliver then because
we've been here before where Apple said,
"Oh, Apple intelligence is going to do
all kinds of things and it didn't
actually come true."
>> So, Scarlet, I'm amazed and super
impressed at how well the iPhone sales
have been without getting AI right. You
think about 20% growth in December
quarter north of 10% growth in the March
quarter. So, the iPhone's done
remarkably well without having a more
compelling artificial intelligence uh
story. So, what does getting it right
look like? what they showcased yesterday
at the um keynote is that certain uh
hardware requirements are necessary to
have all the bells and whistles of the
new artificial intelligence that Apple's
rolling out. And what I also thought was
interesting is they're saying to some
extent you're going to need an iCloud
subscription. uh otherwise you're going
to have your usage uh gated on
artificial intelligence which I think is
kind of a soft comparison to what uh
OpenAI and Claude and Anthropic are
doing as far as charging consumers
subscriptions to fully engage with AI.
So the good news is we've had this huge
upgrade cycle or very strong iPhone
sales without a very impressive AI uh
performance from Apple. And I think that
right now the good news is it looks
directionally better to me and perhaps
that can sustain the momentum.
>> Tom, so much of the bullcase still rests
upon one thing, leveraging that very
large install base. Tom, I just wonder
to what extent we take the install base
for granted. Is there a risk that
someone comes up with something better?
>> So what does something better look like?
Uh, and I think that the the what Tim
Cook did amazingly well is sustain the
product life of the iPhone. So I think
it's on John Turnis to do that as well
as I think there's lowhanging fruit to
be picked. Think smart glasses when you
think the success that Met has had. I
think foldable uh smartphones when you
think the success that others have had.
So, I think that he has enough
lowhanging fruit uh that can drive
continued hardware sales. And I haven't
seen anything from anyone else as far as
another device, another way that's going
to engage with AI that is uh so superior
to the iPhone that I'm, you know,
worried at least uh when I look out over
the next 3 years.
>> Haven't seen it yet. Things can change.
Tom, it's good to see you. I appreciate
your opinion as always. Thank you, sir.
Tom Ford there
>> of Maxim Group. That stock was down in
yesterday's session by close to 2% a
little bit softer this morning, holding
those losses down a few ten of 1%. Up
next on the program, AI's inflationary
risk. Initially, the AI boom will
certainly be inflationary. It's very
clear when you look at semiconductor
prices, when we look at energy prices,
we look at labor, meaning what is the
price of constructing a data center.
>> What does that mean for interest rates
and the US dollar? Up next, we'll catch
up with George Savedos of Deutsche Bank,
live from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
Heat. Heat.
If you are just tuning in, welcome to
the program. Near session, highs on the
S&P 500. Futures right now up by 0.4%
[music] up by.7 on the NASDAQ. In the
bond market, 210, and 30s shaping up as
follows. Yields look like this. We're
down two basis points at the front end
of the curve twos at 41431.
A week and a day away from the Fed's
next decision. under Savylvanas this
morning. AI's inflationary risk.
>> Initially, the AI boom will certainly be
inflationary. It's very clear when you
look at semiconductor prices, when you
look at energy prices, when you look at
labor, meaning what is the price of
constructing a data center. If AI does
result in more job growth, it will be
really the miracle drug that both
creates higher productivity and also
creates higher job growth.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. Wall
Street looking for signs artificial
intelligence is adding to inflation and
CPI and PPI data are just around the
corner. George Salavos of Deutsche Bank
writing, "There is no compelling
evidence of an impact on the labor
market, but a lot of evidence of demand
side inflation. AI is currently putting
upward, not downward pressure on rates.
George joins us now for more. George,
welcome to the show. Good to see you,
buddy. Can you make the case right now
that this Fed is sufficiently
restrictive?
Well, I think that's the big uh debate
uh John at the moment because you have a
situation where inflation is starting to
pick back up. We obviously got the AI
theme uh you alluded to. I think another
critical part is US fiscal policy last
year was tightening. This year it's
easing again. We not only have Ober but
these uh refunds on tariffs that are
going through and of course the average
tariff rate has come down pretty sharply
uh and growth is holding in very well.
So I think it's a very valid question.
uh to ask uh the FOMC members themselves
are asking that question and I think
this June Fed meeting that's coming up
is going to be a really big test uh for
the new chair. I think the market will
test chair Walsh. Uh it will test his uh
his credentials and we could potentially
see quite a lot of volatility.
>> George, we can talk about what's going
to happen with chair wash in just a
moment. I want to talk about the source
of demand that's pushing inflation up. I
read that quote of yours. How right
sensitive is that source of demand?
>> Well, uh again that's something I I
think that boils to the core of uh this
question around AI and arguably you can
make the case that is not that rate
sensitive. Uh you effectively have a
whole new sector of the economy uh
that's being built out. Uh but this
notwithstanding uh if the Fed has to
push inflation down then it may have to
use uh the blunt interest rate tool uh
which effectively makes some of these
K-shaped dynamics uh which many people
talk about worse and of course it
creates uh political problems as well.
So it's not really an easy position uh
for the Fed to be in. Uh what I would
say on AI is that uh we really have to
keep an open mind um in terms of the
impact. uh it's it's best not to be
driven by narratives but the data and
the good thing over the last 6 months is
that we have data anthropic in
particular if you go on their website
releases very detailed data on AI usage
and then you can map that usage you can
see what the impact on the labor market
is and for now at least uh we can very
clearly see that there is no um negative
impact on the labor market and it's
mostly on the inflationary side by the
capex buildout
>> George I seem to recall Kevin Walsh um
has a stance that AI is going to boost
productivity while keeping inflation at
bay. Does he have data to back that up
or is that a narrative?
>> Well, I think the issue with AI is
obviously this is an impact that will
take many years to play out and has
different stages. So you have the capex
stage, then you have the usage stage. uh
and I think the difficulty is because
it's such a new technology it's very
difficult to make a convincing case of
the impact long-term one way or another
uh and this is why I keep emphasizing I
don't think anyone will have strong
credibility in terms of coming out there
with a narrative and a theory we really
have to be looking at the data in the
here and now and at the moment uh the
data is telling us it's mostly acting as
a positive demand shock
>> you said you have the capex stage is
there I mean does that stage ever end?
Doesn't the capex boom just kind of
continue? Maybe not at the same rate,
but it's an ongoing thing, isn't it?
>> Uh, so I think you we need to break it
down to two stages. One is building the
so-called AI factories to produce AI,
which is effectively the capex build.
Think of it as the equivalent to um
building the railways, laying the
railway tracks. And then the second
stage is where you actually use the
technology. And I think there's a very
open question on during that usage if
usage picks up uh could that end up
having much bigger um disinflationary
impacts. Uh but I I think uh the
dominant impact at the moment is the
demand side and the capex roll out which
at some stage should peak. Uh we will
build enough data centers at some point
to satisfy the demand and at the moment
uh we're we're in that buildout period.
>> George, I've been reading the research
of Matt Lazelli and the team your
colleagues on the outlook for interest
rates. I think Matt sort of ahead of the
curve a number of months ago talking
about taking back the insurance cuts of
last year framing matters going into
this meeting. The question we ask
matters going into this meeting. There's
a difference between saying do we need
hikes and then asking did we need the
cuts? If you start with the second
question, did we need the cuts? George,
is there a decent argument to take some
of those cuts back?
>> Well, this goes back to the challenge of
having to rely on payrolls uh that keeps
on getting endlessly uh revised and is
very volatile. I think with the benefit
of hindsight uh you can probably make
the case uh that some of those insurance
cuts u need to be uh reversed. I think
it's easy of course to say that with
hindsight. Uh the genuine piece of new
information of course is the role of AI
and I would say probably the fiscal
stance in the US is a bit more
expansionary than people thought and of
course you have the energy shock. So you
have a number of arguments. Um what's
interesting is if you look at the the
first um meetings of uh central bank
governors whether that's Lagard uh back
around COVID or whether it's Chair
Yellen in 2014 those first meetings
always proved a challenge. Uh if if you
remember back to the Lagard comment
around the ECB not being in the business
of closing spreads that caused uh a huge
uh volatility around the event and then
uh we had the reversal on a subsequent
uh television interview. Uh so I think
chair wash comes at a very difficult
time because of all these um all these
topics we're discussing and of course
the political sensitivity around a new
Fed uh rate hiking cycle.
>> George, I'm pleased you brought up the
ECB and President Christine Lagard
because it's an odd situation right now.
We're talking about an American economy
that potentially in some places is
overheating and the Federal Reserve
still has an easing bass and the ECB the
economy is not doing so well and yet
they're set to hike this week. George,
what does that mean for the FX dynamic?
How things are stacking up for both the
US dollar and the euro?
>> So, uh, hiking for inflation and for bad
reasons, uh, is not as good for a
currency as of course if you're having,
uh, positive growth dynamics. Uh, so I
would argue on a relative basis, a Fed
hike, um, and the market pricing three
hikes say, for the Fed this year,
similar to the ECB, um, would be a lot
more supportive for the dollar. So from
a a if I look at current central bank
pricing and the risks around that uh I
would say they do lean in a more dollar
bullish uh direction uh which is one
reason why we've uh stayed away from uh
expressing dollar bearish views over the
last few months. Now this being said
against this central bank story I think
there is an open question mark on will
the Fed turn hawkish will they hike how
will chair Walsh manage this press
conference and there is a risk that if
he's doubbish um you actually see a lot
more of the repricing in the back end uh
which could be more negative for the
dollar so um you do need the Fed to turn
um away from this easing bias as you
mentioned I think for a potential dollar
positive followthrough and then there's
a few other things going on obviously
the Iran
uh the possibility of a Ukraine Russia
peace deal over the summer is also going
up arguably. Uh so we're on the
sidelines at the moment in terms of uh
exchange rate impact. I I think the
market is much more focused on rates and
that's probably the right thing to be
doing. George, very quickly, if you
could fold in oil prices as well. Brent,
currently at about uh $92. You say they
need to rapidly and quickly reverse,
otherwise a combination of the fiscal
spending as well as a capex boom could
create a lot of inflation.
>> So, I think it's this energy shock
that's been additive to everything uh
we've been talking about. So in some
sense if you think about um which is the
most hish outcome from central banks
it's probably the one we're seeing at
the moment which is oil prices staying
around 100 but the growth drag not being
as big um one because fiscal policy is
easy and we discussed the US but also
across Asia and you're seeing the
discussion in Japan as well um large
price caps on oil. So if you have this
combination of energy prices high but
growth holding in due to both fiscal
policy as well as the AI uh capex story
uh I think that's probably the most
hawkish combination you could get for
central banks especially for the US but
also for these Asian economies that are
benefiting from similar dynamics.
>> Hey George, always good to catch up
buddy. It's good to see you. Thanks for
joining us. George Save there of
Deutsche Bank on the outlook for
monetary policy at both the Federal
Reserve and the ECB. The ECB meeting
this Thursday expected to hike interest
rates [music] pushed into this by an
energy shock going into its fourth
month. Euro stronger positive for a
second session euro dollar this morning
around 115. [music]
Up next on the program we'll catch up
with Barbara Reinhardt of Voya
Investment Management. Jennifer
Huddleston of the KO Institute. Tasha
Keiny of Arc Invest and Git Dinger
[music] of BNP Parabar. BNP looking for
a hike this year from the Federal
Reserve. The second hour of Bloomberg
surveillance just around the corner.
the case can be made for a hike. Right
now,
>> we're seeing distinct upside pressures
on inflation and central banks are
debating about what to do.
>> You have a Fed that's not necessarily
saying that we're going to fight
inflation with a lot of gusto.
>> I'm not sure cutting rates actually does
anything.
>> So far, the Fed can just wait it out.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern
>> alongside Scarlet Fu this morning, live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning. Good morning from our audience
worldwide. The second down of Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. And your
price action looks like this. Looking
for a second day of gains. The bounce
continues. Here's the positive
follow-through. Up by 0.5 on the S&P 500
on the Nasdaq, up by 0.8 on the Russell,
up 1 percentage point. The bond market
yields declining across the curve.
Twos's out to 30s. Twos's down [music]
by two to 41390 encouraged by this move.
On crude a break of 90 [music] on WTI an
89 handle down by 2.5%. Brent at 92
yesterday [music]
trading at 98. Some distance from there
this morning down by 2.1% [music] at the
front end of the futures curve on the
Bren contract. If you turn to the week
ahead, the main event tomorrow morning
on the data side of things, CPI [music]
at 8:30 Eastern time. the last CPI print
ahead of the Federal Reserve's next
meeting and Kevin Walsh is first and
expectations Scalafu continue to build.
>> They continue to build but right now if
Kevin Walsh can make sure that there is
no real concrete steps towards a rate
hike that might be counted [music] as a
victory.
>> Drop the easing bars that seems to be
the fight right now which is odd because
the ECB this week on Thursday is set to
[music] hike interest rates and the
European economy right now is in nowhere
near as good shape [music] as the
American economy. So just set the scene.
The ECB is going to hike. Economy is not
as good. And the Federal Reserve is just
talking about dropping an easing bias.
Never mind introducing a hawkish bus.
We're not even [music] there yet. And
never mind hiking. BMP later this hour
thinks we will. They're nowhere near
right now.
>> Yeah, it's a study in contrast. And it
really goes to show how quickly things
[music] have changed from just a month
ago or 6 months ago or 8 weeks ago.
>> Futures doing better. Futures this
morning on the S&P up by 0.5%.
NASDAQ futures building up as well.
Russell futures too. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Barbara
Reinhardt of Voya Investment Management
as big tech [music] continues to fuel
gains. Tasha Keiti of Arc Investors,
OpenAI joins SpaceX and Anthropic in the
race to go public. And here he is,
Gunnik Dingra, BNP Parabar, expecting
the Fed to hike interest rates. A new
house call over at BNP. We'll get that
conversation to you a little bit later.
We begin this hour with stocks adding to
gains as the AIEL rebound enters a
second session. Barbara Reinhardt of
Voya investment management writing it's
been one of the strongest momentum
stylebased runs in more than 50 years.
Friday's reaction was a challenge of the
AI trade a realization of the size of
the coming mega IPOs and equity
offerings. Barbara joins us now for
more. Barbara, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> We've asked this question a few times a
few different ways. Do we have the
capacity to absorb all that equity?
>> We think that they do. The market has a
tremendous amount of d demand for it.
You can see that the SpaceX IPO is overs
subscribed by over 10 times. the equity
market is big enough to dig to digest
it. I think the issue that the market
was really grappling with on Friday were
all the equity follow on offerings, you
know, one from other big tech names like
Google and then potentially from Meta,
which was is this the start of something
else?
>> Do you think the window's closing with
the Federal Reserve in mind? The
prospect of potentially, and I stress
potentially, tighter policy on the
horizon.
>> I think it's a good question, Jonathan.
The Federal Reserve is really in play.
And while all of this IPOs news has
really been capturing the headlines, the
Fed is going to be the big thing to
watch, I think, over the course of this
summer. Remember, the Federal Reserve
doesn't like to surprise the markets.
They like to telegraph what they're
doing in advance. They think it's a
better way to have the transmission of
monetary policy. So, if they drop the
easing bias, that would be a step, but a
slow step in the direction to hike
rates. it wouldn't be an immediate shift
and a and a turn on a dime of policy.
That's not the way that the Fed likes to
act and uh we would see that as a
significant change at the margin, but
one that we really give a very low
probability to.
>> Our understanding of the new Fed chair
Kevin Walsh is that he is not big on
overcommunicating either. So what might
that less communicative Fed look like as
it trying to transitions out of one
regime into another?
>> Well, remember the change in leadership
at the Federal Reserve is just one piece
of it. You have a very big FOMC
committee. you have a very large
institution and an institutional mindset
behind at the Fed. So the chairman is
one piece to it and maybe that at the
margin will change just a bit but it'll
be over a very long period of time.
Think about this. Jerome Pal introduced
the whole Fed listens tour. That was a
big change for the Fed to go out to the
markets to listen to business owners and
to people in the community. That was a a
a slight change at the margin but
another way for the comm for the Fed to
absorb data and to collect data. And
this chairman will also have his
hallmark and his change, but it's going
to be very slow at the margin.
>> So yields uh even though they're
somewhat easing today, at least on the
short end, near the highest in uh over a
year since February of 2025. Higher
yields push up the cost of mortgages and
corporate borrowing. How much tightening
is the rates market doing for the Fed
right now?
>> Oh, it's doing a lot of heavy lifting.
The two-year yield is certainly kind of
the place that we've seen that the lion
share of it, but we very much closely
watch credit spreads. Credit spreads are
the cost of financing into the markets
for corporations and for small
businesses. As long as you see credit
spreads continuing to stay behaved, that
incremental cost of financing tends to
be at the margin. So, you know, for us,
those are the p pieces that we're
watching very closely. Financial
conditions have indeed tightened because
you've got higher oil prices. Uh you've
had, you know, an increase in in the
front end of the curve. Uh but it's
really been at the back of a very strong
rally in equity markets and that's been
the the swamping effect to it.
>> Spreads are still tight. 265 on high
yield spreads on a Bloomberg this
morning as of the last 24 hours or so.
You've said before the bond market
worries you.
>> We still have those worries. What can
you pinpoint in the bond market this
morning that worries you? Well, you
know, the the nice news is since the
last time I was on, the 10-year yield
has eased pretty dramatically, and
that's relatively good news because
that's where the um mortgage rate is is
uh priced off of. So, to see yields
easing at the back end is a is a very
good development. If you can get some
improvement and some movement on a
resolution to the war in Iran, that will
help ease financial conditions. It'll
help oil prices come down. That could
really make for a much easier time in
financial markets over the course of
this summer. However, you know, we do
watch a lot of the political
developments. There's been a big
backlash that we've at least seen in the
headlines about AI data centers being
built out. That's something that we're
watching very closely for the AI trade.
Uh, you know, we're past this kind of
indigestion period knowing that all
these IPOs are coming. You may have to
be more selective. It could be more
choppy this summer. Uh but we don't
think that the bull market in equities
is over.
>> This is the crowding out theme that I
wanted to spend some time on. I've
spoken to Rick Reader of Black Rockck
about this in the last week. Jim Zout of
Apollo sat in your seat and talked about
this too. You got a lot of offerings
coming on the equity side on the debt
side as well. And if you think about the
prospect of crowding and gout, who's
vulnerable here?
>> Some people are pointing to the Treasury
market, but maybe it's the government
bond market that's vulnerable to that
crowd and gout. Does that resonate with
you?
you would have lost a lot of money
betting against the US Treasury market
over the past 30 years. There's always
some concern that the you know
government debt to GDP is becoming too
high for the US to finance. The US is
the single biggest liquid market in the
world at this point. Every single um you
know Treasury bond, corporate bonds are
priced off of the US Treasury market.
So, I'm not necessarily concerned
because you've seen rates really come
down pretty dramatically from their peak
at the at the middle of May. Uh, that
actually is relatively good news, but of
course, we we watch it very closely. You
know, we are asset allocators, so we
make the stock to bond decision here at
Voya. We're making it for long-term
investments for retirement. Uh, but we
don't think that there's necessarily a
crowding out at this point. I think that
the one thing you do have to watch is if
the hyperscalers start to have
difficulty finding financing or if their
financing costs continue to go up. Uh
that would be something that'd be a a
negative change that you'd have to watch
out for.
>> You can see the forces start to change.
The forces that have been supportive of
this market for the last 10 years are
starting to turn. These equity markets
were driven by a handful of names that
were buying back a lot of stock and not
issuing equity and not doing a ton of
capex either. Now they're starting to
turn. See that in the debt market too.
Yes, but you do have a very strong
earnings rally. Yes. Why? We certainly
acknowledge that uh the tech stocks are
a big portion of the US equity market
and a big portion of the earnings story.
But I would say the other 493 companies
in the S&P 500 have relatively good
earnings growth, relatively good sales
growth as well. So, let's talk about
some of the other 493 companies in the
S&P 500. Um, where can you go defensive
at this point? Because it feels like
it's tech and then there's just
everything else as an afterthought.
Scarlet, it's such a good question.
Look, as you're thinking about investing
and as you're thinking about making your
investment decisions over the next three
to five years, you the defensive parts
of the market, health care, financials,
they are much cheaper than they've been
in the past. And when you're thinking
about making your investment decisions,
you know, allocating capital to where
the earnings growth is the strongest is
usually a good way to go. But when the
defenses get cheap enough, it's always
worth it to have an insurance policy.
And you want to have the insurance
policy before the storm hits. When it
comes to financials though, are you
worried given the rate outlook what that
means for this sector? They're so rate
sensitive and we've been kind of
counting on easier policy.
>> Well, remember this, the backends come
down. So, that's going to help the
mortgage market. That will help that um
NIM spread that most financials work off
of. And if you think over the next three
to five years, why we're certainly
concerned to see the backup in the
two-year in such a a meaningful way, you
know, just six months ago, we were
talking about a relatively weak labor
market, right? Yes, Friday's number for
non-farm payrolls was a barn burner, but
to think that the US is going into an
overheating, that the Fed is going to
have to raise interest rates
aggressively isn't our base case at this
point.
>> The last two summers we've gone into,
we've had a weakening of the labor
market followed up by three interest
rate cuts from the Federal Reserve. Is
this year shaping up to be quite
different?
>> Jonathan, you point out such an
interesting cyclical factor. We talk
about this all the time at Voya. You
always tend to see these weakening labor
markets kind of going into August and
then you see some firming of them in the
in into the fourth quarter. It's not
surprising. We've seen it before. You
know, I think you're probably on the
flip side of this because you had a
relatively softer labor market in the
last quarter of last year and into the
first quarter of this year. So, we
probably would see it probably on firmer
footing at this point. And I think
that's good news for all of our college
grads that are looking for jobs.
>> Barbara, appreciate your time. Good to
see you.
>> Thank you. Baba had there. Voya
Investment Management payrolls on
Friday. The strongest growth we've seen
in quite a while, topping all forecast,
all estimates in our survey. The
strongest three-month advance in more
than two years. Equity futures right
now, the S&P up by 0.5. Up next on a
program, leading the AI race.
>> We're leading China. We're leading
everybody in the world with AI, and we
want to keep it that way. It's probably
the biggest industry maybe that we've
ever seen. Up next on the program,
Jennifer Huddleston of the Ko Institute,
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
[music]
We're getting closer to the main event.
It's Friday. SpaceX, the SpaceX debut,
the biggest IPO [music] we have ever
seen on the horizon, looking to raise 75
billion on a $1.8 trillion market cap.
the playbyplay for the next few days. On
Wednesday, expecting to take orders from
institutional investors that should
close on Wednesday. On Thursday, we're
expecting this thing to price on Friday
expecting it to trade. As for the IPOs,
could see more from Anthropic, OpenAI
gearing [music] up to do the same. And
as for those companies, some of those
companies looking to give up some
stakes. This came from notice some
reporting from Jeff Stein that the
president's plan to meet with AI
companies was news to the AI companies.
Scarlet, an amazing story I've read in
the last 24 hours. This is a [music] big
debate right now in Silicon Valley and
down in Washington DC. The president's
looking to have meetings that apparently
these [music] companies didn't know
anything about.
>> Well, the president has a lot of things
that he's juggling. Um chief among them
is ending the war in Iran and we still
[music] don't really have any progress
on that. But um AI is at the center of
the universe right now. certainly
leading charge of the booming stock
[music] market and it's no um accident
that the president wants to make sure
that that continues.
>> Tech stocks they continue to do well
through this week started Monday
following Friday selloff this morning
futures positive again up by 0.5 on the
S&P on the NASDAQ 100 up by 0.8 8 on the
Russell up by 0.9 helped out by this
bond market this morning I have to say
twos 10 and 30s things just calming down
just a bit going [music] into CPI
tomorrow morning off the highs of the
year on twos 41348 and down three
[music] basis points at the front end of
the curve scarlet mentioned crude let's
talk about it WTI and Brent the high of
yesterday [music] 98 and back down to 92
this morning negative by 1.9% on the
session so far WTI a break of 90 89 I
keep going back to the same story April
[music] 17th, 2 months ago, we're told
the straight of Hormuz was reopening. It
never [music] did. And we've been told
every week since we're getting closer
and closer to a deal, and we still don't
have one. WCI crude 8919 [music]
under Surveillance this morning. Let's
return to that tech story. Leading the
AI race.
>> We're leading China. We're leading
everybody in the world with AI and we
want to keep it that way. It's probably
the biggest industry maybe that we've
ever seen. Which companies in the
meeting?
>> All of them.
>> All the big ones. Yeah. All the big.
They're all coming to the White House.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
Trump administration considering equity
stakes in leading [music] AI companies.
Multiple outlets reporting OpenAI CEO
Sam Alman and the White House are in
talks. Amarie has the latest from
Washington. Good morning, Amarie.
>> Good morning, Jonathan. Well, we thought
the president was breaking some news on
Friday when he was gaggling with
reporters, including myself, on Air
Force One. And then we get these reports
that actually it was news to those
companies themselves, Anthropic, OpenAI,
SpaceX, but the direction of travel is
clear in terms of what this White House
wants to do when it comes to these AI
companies, especially as all of them
prepare to go to the market. Jennifer
Huddleston joins me now, senior fellow
in technology policy at the Ko
Institute. Jennifer, good morning.
Thanks for joining me.
>> Good morning. Thanks for having me.
>> So, you're spending a lot of your time
right now focused on this. The president
talks about concepts of ideas in terms
of how there could be more of a public
private partnership when it comes to
these AI companies. What do you think
some of the policy proposals this White
House, maybe Congress could actually
land on? You know, there's a big
difference in kind of the idea of a
public private partnership and what
we're seeing in terms of calls for
government investment in some of these
leading companies. One of the real
concerns is that if we see government
investment, if we see significant
government involvement, that could lead
to the government picking winners and
losers at a time when this industry is
incredibly dynamic and where we don't
necessarily know where the full
applications of the technology are going
or who those leaders are going to be
when it comes to what consumers actually
need and want.
>> Do you feel that this White House
already has done that though? So why
would they stop here when you think of
MP materials and Intel? Why would they
stop at the AI companies which is also a
welcome policy proposal on the far left?
You know, you mentioned there does seem
to be this odd horseshoe where you have
Senator Bernie Sanders proposing a
sovereign wealth fund to to invest in AI
companies and then you've had these kind
of rumors out of the White House of a
very similar proposal. You mentioned the
past actions around for example Intel
and one of the things we can see there
is the impact that this can have on
private investment on presumptions
around how these companies are going to
develop and that's something to also
consider what does this mean not only
for these companies and for the AI
industry but what does it also mean for
the market environment around these
companies Jonathan and I have been
speaking about this all week and a
question he brought up yesterday is do
the companies want to share in the
profits with the US government or do you
think they want to get involved with the
US government to potentially protect
against the downside?
>> One of the big concerns with the kind of
government investment is a risk of
cronyism. A risk that only those large
companies could be the ones that could
potentially navigate these things. What
does that mean for smaller players who
might emerge as leaders in the future?
And also what does that mean for the
involvement of the government in this
technology that's so critical to access
to information to the opportunities for
for many potential innovations and
applications? Is that the type of thing
where you may see a politicization of
certain policies of companies not being
willing to offer certain products
because they're worried what government
regulators might think about that or how
they might find that disfavored. Do you
think the IPOs are pushing the
government to act? Because we're going
to see SpaceX go public on Friday. Then
it's going to be open AI and anthropic
and we're seeing these companies inc
valuations that are so not normal when
it comes to IPOs and going public on on
public markets. There's a lot of
excitement around AI around its
potential both in the markets as well as
in individual businesses and their
potential applications of AI. I think
that we're also in a moment where we're
still seeing a lot of potential fears, a
lot of potential concerns around AI and
a lot of uncertainty of what that means
for jobs or things like that. So, I
don't think that we can say hard and
fast whether this is a result of, you
know, interest in IPOs, but more just a
continuing question of what the US
approach to AI policy should look like.
You mentioned this horseshoe. You have
Bernie Sanders on the on the far left. I
asked Trump about this and he said that
they actually share some economic
thinking uh similarities and that he
took some of Bernie's voters. Then you
have individuals like even Steve Bannon
on the far right who think Bernie
Sanders doesn't go far enough. It does
feel like Washington will do something.
What do you think would be appropriate?
I think it's really important that we
remember why a light touch approach to
innovation has allowed the US to be a
leader in the internet era and that we
consider how that might play out in the
AI era. there may be need a need for
clear policy guardrails around some of
the issues like government use of AI. Um
but when we're thinking about how this
technology could potentially evolve in
its most beneficial ways, we should want
consumers and innovators in the market
to be the ones that decide all the
potential application rather than
bureaucrats dictating that this
technology can only evolve in one
particular direction. Do you think
executives are more willing to work with
the government on this and potentially
even give them a stake because they know
there's going to be public backlash when
we've seen so much public backlash,
especially recently at commencement
speeches. There's a lot of anxiety.
Bernie Sanders is talking about the fact
that AI models run based of based off of
all of our collective work as a society.
There's certainly a lot of discomfort in
the public around AI. And I think it's
important that we remember all the
benefits of AI and that AI isn't just
products like chat GPT. We're seeing
things like amazing medical research
advances. We're seeing better
predictions for natural disasters. We're
seeing a lot of applications of AI that
the average individual might not be
aware about or thinking about and that
therefore when we're thinking about AI,
we have to think much bigger including
when we're thinking about AI policy.
You're very optimistic on the future of
AI. Um, a lot of people are nervous that
it would mean loss of jobs in this
country.
>> You know, I think it's okay to be
nervous on an individual level, but
we've been there and we've had this
uncertainty around other automation
technologies in the past, whether it was
questions of what would ATMs do to
teller jobs or the rise of Excel in the
financial sector. What we find is that
typically when these new technologies
come in, yes, there is some
displacement, but there is also a lot
more opportunities that are created by
those efficiencies. And there are also
opportunities that often lead to more
enjoyable work and um more opportunities
in the future as well. Can we talk about
what the government is using in terms of
AI right now? It was a little bit
confusing because clearly the DoD is
still running Anthropic, but they're
giving them six months. The DoD is
giving itself six months to wind that
down and use other partners. What does
it mean for anthropic to be used in
especially mythos across other agencies
in the government but still be a supply
chain risk considered a supply chain
risk at the Pentagon? You know this is a
really complicated question and one of
the questions we really need to be
discussing when it comes to potential
guard rails for artificial intelligence.
There are certainly benefits of the
government using artificial intelligence
to better serve its constituents, to
better serve its citizens. But there are
also unique civil rights and civil
liberty concerns when it comes to the
potential use of AI for concerns related
to domestic surveillance or autonomous
lethal weapons, many of which were at
the heart of the dispute between the
Pentagon and Anthropic. A few weeks ago,
I spoke to Under Secretary Neil Michael
about this and he said there's no talks
anymore left between DoD and Anthropic,
but we have seen the Anthropic CEO have
meetings in Washington, even with the
chief of staff, Susie Wilds. Do you
think that's going to get patched up?
>> You know, it's a complicated situation
and I think there are two factors there.
There's the question of the decision
around the contract, which could be a
normal dispute between a government
contractor and a government agency. But
what made this so unique was the supply
chain designation and that's what raised
serious concerns when it comes to
questions around free speech around the
potential government influence in this
very important market.
>> Thank you so much for joining us this
morning. Thank you for having me.
>> That was Jennifer Hendelson, senior
fellow in technology policy at the Ko
Institute. Jonathan, very uncomfortable
conversations here in Washington DC. If
you're an individual who believes in
free market policy, you don't want to
see the government picking winners and
losers. Well, already this White House
has done that and now they're getting
pressure even from the far left to do
that when it comes to these AI
companies.
>> And Marie, I have to say I'm still
confused. I'm trying to work out whether
this is the US government looking to buy
a stake or whether it's some of these
companies looking to give up a stake
because when you listen to the words of
Sam Alman and some of the reporting, it
suggests it might be the latter, which
is difficult to get your head around.
>> It is difficult to get your head around
and the idea is that the president at
this moment has just said their concept.
So clearly they haven't figured out
exactly how this would work out. But if
you think the likes of Sam Ultimate is
willing to give the government a stake,
you have to think that's for a reason
and that is probably to have a lighter
regulatory touch when it comes to this
industry.
>> AMH down in Washington DC. Amarie, thank
you. Scarlet Food, last time I checked,
I said this yesterday. I don't think
that company's a charity anymore.
>> No, it's certainly not. I mean, and that
was kind of at the heart of that lawsuit
between Elon Musk and Sam Alman. But I
think um Enry makes a good point. The
it's it's not necessarily a trade-off,
but it's a little bit of like, you know,
we'll make sure that we're all on the
same side of things. [music]
>> We'll share the upside and maybe the
downside,
>> but there won't be any downside.
>> Of course, no downside at all. We're
going to share some losses. Coming up on
the program, Tasha Keiny of Arc
Investors, OpenAI joins SpaceX Anthropic
in the race to go public from New York
City this morning. Good morning. You're
watching Bloombeck TV.
equities bouncing back Monday followed
through this Tuesday morning. Equity
futures up by 0.4% on [music] the S&P
500. On the Nasdaq up by 0.8 eight. On
Friday, chips got absolutely hammered,
down by 10 percentage points on the
semiconductor index. Yesterday, up by
more than five. This morning, chip
stocks across the board once again
picking up a little bit. Nvidia up
[music] by 4/10en of 1%. Broadcom up by
one. Intel up by 2.3. That's a seed on
the equity side of things. Here's the
picture in the bond market. [music]
Twos, 10, and 30s. Yields just behaving
just a little bit. We're down three
basis points going into CPI tomorrow
morning. 41348
on twos on 10s [music]
454 in the commodity market helping out
this move contributing to it [music]
Brent crude down by 1.8% 8% to 92 WTI
89. Why are we at these levels even
though we haven't done anything about
[music] the situation in the Middle
East? This came from SOGEN. The loss in
supply is double the 17 1973 shock. So
why is crude only up by 30% so far this
[music] year? This is from Sockgen's
Michael H. China is acting as the
market's key rebalancing force, quietly
cutting crude imports [music] from 11.7
million barrels a day in February to
just under nine by late May. Alongside a
drop in refinery utilization, it
represents one of the biggest offsets
we've [music] seen to this commodity
market. A lot of news developments out
of China. Yeah, I think that caught a
lot of people by surprise, but China has
been on this shift to clean energy and
it's really taken hold at a time when um
you know a lot of people thought that it
would be importing oil the way that it
did in the past. Uh what I find
interesting of course is this idea that
investors seem to look past [music] all
the latest uh details in the Iran
conflict and fixate on the idea that
there will be an end to this soon and
the straight of Hormuz will be free
flowing once again.
>> Even though hostilities have picked up a
few times in the last week, even over
the weekend,
>> you know, there's a deal coming in two
weeks. Of course, the promise of a deal
on the horizon still, even though the
president looked like he lost control
over the weekend of [music] Israel,
telling them not to strike Iran, and
they do just that.
>> Yeah, it does seem like the Israel and
the US's end goals [music] or objectives
may be diverting a little bit here,
right? Um Iran certainly wants Lebanon
to be a part of whatever agreement
[music] there is. Israel is intent on
making sure that Hezbollah is destroyed
and the US just wants a deal.
>> Frank Crude at 92 WTI this morning
around 89. And on our radar this
morning, the president signaling peace
talks with Iran are on track and a deal
is imminent.
>> We're in the final throws of what will
be a very, very good deal. The straight
will open up right away. It'll open up
immediately upon signing, which could be
in 2 or 3 days.
>> Momentum towards a deal coming as Iran
and Israel agree to hold strikes
following recent attacks. Elsewhere,
OpenAI confidentially filing for an IPO,
setting its sights on a listing as soon
as the fall. It joined SpaceX, which is
preparing for its trading debut on
Friday. Investors already placing orders
exceeding $10 billion. And finally,
Taiwan authorities weighing stricter
export controls on AI chips. The
proposal could further align with US
measures restricting sales to all
customers in China and enable Taiwan to
prosecute chip smuggling as a criminal
violation.
>> Well, this all comes down to how the US
banned sales of its most advanced
technology. And here we're talking about
AI servers with Nvidia chips to China
unless the US has given specific
permission. And interestingly for
Taiwan's part, it doesn't actually
consider unauthorized AI chip exports to
China to be a crime. Instead, what they
do is warn potential sellers that you
might be running a foul of US uh rules,
US laws if you proceed, but do so at
your own risk. So now this is kind of
bringing everything back under its own
umbrella again.
>> Just on a path seemingly to more tension
between Taiwan and China.
>> Yeah, just what we need. and nothing
convincing coming from this
administration that they'd step in if
ever came to that. The latest on Taiwan
this morning from our Bloomberg
reporting. Elsewhere, AI companies
racing to go public. Open AAI
confidentially filing for an IPO just
yesterday. Arc Invest Venture Fund gives
investors access to private companies.
SpaceX Open AI and Anthropic are its top
three holdings. The fund growing close
to 30% over the last 6 months. Tasha
Keiny of Arinvest joins us now for more.
Tasha, welcome to the program. I have no
doubt that you and the team are very
excited about the IPO taking place later
this week on Friday. Could we just spend
a bit of time talking about the company,
Tasha, the three driving forces of it,
the three big components of it and how
they complement each other?
>> Sure. Well, the the story is really that
SpaceX is the lowcost launch provider.
Um, you know, with reusable rockets,
they have uh been the industry driving
force to drive launch costs down. So,
right now they're at about $1,000 per
kilogram. Our research suggests, you
know, they'll go to the low hundreds of
dollars per kilogram. Um, you know, and
as they get cheaper, that's what we
think enables orbital data centers. Um,
so this, you know, the XAI acquisition
here comes into play. Um, they could
onell um the compute that they send into
space like we've seen them uh do on the
ground um and monetize it that way or
they could onell uh model services um
from from XAI models. Um so that you
know plus the connectivity business
again enabled by a lowcost launch here.
Uh Starlink is uh you know I think today
it's thought of as as the backup option
for areas that that don't get service
but um you know their ambition is is to
be a major provider here of connectivity
and to not just be be the backup option.
Um so so very ambitious targets here. Um
but it's certainly a market that we're
excited about.
>> Some of this takes a lot of imagination
but can you just help us out with
valuation and how to value this company?
value it as a coms company, an AI
infrastructure company. Tasha, how do
you value this?
>> Well, the majority of the opportunity
here, you know, as laid out by the
company is is really in the AI um
compute space. So, uh you know, the
connectivity business, as as I
mentioned, they're they're marking that
as around a trillion dollar opportunity.
That's that's again if they if they're
able to be sort of like a a main
provider here of connectivity and
actually compete with the Telos or
partner with them, um remains to be
seen. um for the AI space uh again to to
monetize compute you know on um on the
ground uh we're seeing rates of on
average about um $15 billion uh per
gigawatt per year uh and then if they
were to onell model services they could
probably get roughly double that. Um of
course the deals that they've struck
with Anthropic and Google um are at
higher rates. Um that could be more of a
short-term phenomenon there. um but
certainly proves that they're already
ready to be an an AI infrastructure
provider uh for terrestrial services.
And again, the the greater ambition here
is to send that compute into space and
to be an AI data center provider in
space.
Tasha, when SpaceX becomes a publicly
traded company, they're going to be
releasing earnings. They're going to be
holding earnings calls with the public.
Do you think that the company will
manage public market expectations the
same way that Tesla does talking about
it until eventually it does do it?
>> Yes. Well, I think you know at Arc
Invest, we are long-term investors here.
So, I think it's important for
innovation stocks, which I would, you
know, firmly categorize uh SpaceX as
that to be uh to have a long-term
horizon here. Um so, really what what
enables the business is reusable
rockets. As I mentioned, the Starship
program, they're going for full
reusability here. um this has never been
done before. Um but uh you know they're
they've been seeing good progress from
their test flights. Um so I I certainly
think that uh they're they're on the
path to getting there and we would
expect that to happen roughly in the
next year. Um but you know like all
innovation stocks like is it necessarily
uh you know can you time things
perfectly quarter to quarter? I would
say no. But I but I think again the
long-term opportunity is what's
important here. Um we've certainly seen
that with Tesla that uh there you know
there was quite a bit of volatility um
in earlier years uh but now they've
really proven to be a major automotive
manufacturer and and we think in the
future um of of robo taxis as well.
>> Jonathan mentioned that uh ARC VX also
owns OpenAI and Anthropic. In fact uh
with SpaceX those make up the top three
holdings. We tend to lump these three
companies altogether especially since
they are all going public this year but
are they actually comparable to one
another?
So I I would look at the broad
opportunity here. ARC size the potential
for AI enterprise software in 2030 at
roughly $7 trillion. And you can think
of that market as you know there'll be
three to four players that can occupy
this space. Um you know we're seeing uh
amazing productivity gains uh already
from these models and we would expect
that to increase. So that's kind of how
I I would think of the space again. Um
but SpaceX as I mentioned uh the
differentiator here is really that
they're also willing to be a major
infrastructure provider as well. Tasha,
always appreciate your time. Tasha Keiny
there of Arc Invest on the future takes
a lot of imagination to really get your
head around how big these markets could
be, which is why a lot of people are
still so skeptical about this valuation
>> and a lot of investors willing to
believe the story that they're being
told.
>> If it wasn't Elon Musk running this
company with this company in its current
condition, just say the numbers are
exactly the same. But Elon Musk is not
the CEO. He's notic Elon Musk is the
X-factor. He needs to be there.
>> What's the market cap for this company
without him and [laughter] this company?
Right? He gets to say these things and
the market cap's going to be this large.
The total addressable market is going to
be this large.
>> He's manifesting it,
>> right? He can go to the road show before
we even get to the road show and just
pick a price.
>> Yeah, that's exactly what it's done.
It's an unconventional IPO in every way.
>> A $1.8 trillion market cap potentially
this coming Friday. The latest on SpaceX
and all the big IPOs on the horizon. In
the equity market right now, up by 0.4%
on the S&P 500. Equities with a lift
encouraged by the move in the bond
market no doubt taking some heat out of
fixed income on the yield side of
things. Yields declined across the curve
twos 10ens and 30s encouraged by this
move in crude 454 on 10s crude down this
morning on WTI and Bren Bren crude down
by about 1.6% WTI down by 1.9 $89 a
barrel. Up next on the program betting
on rate hikes
>> the case can be made for a hike right
now. We have inflation that's [music]
been high for five years and counting
and moving in the wrong direction and a
labor market that at least for the time
being has shifted maybe from stabilizing
to strengthening but the outlook is very
uncertain.
>> So in just a moment Gonite Dinkra of BMP
Parab is going to join us. We're going
to be talking about the future of Fed
policy and what it means for fixed
income [music] more broadly but also
what it means for the 30-year piece of
the Treasury yield. The 30-year is
trading around five. Do you think five
is a ceiling? Ganite does not think it's
a ceiling and maybe it opens the door to
further moves higher from here. BMP
[music] Parabar as a house is now
looking for a rate hike. A rate hike in
December and then another one and then
another one. That conversation [music]
just around the corner from New York
City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Inflation data coming through the week.
PPI [music] and CPI later this week. CPI
first of course dropping tomorrow
morning at 8:30 Eastern time. Earlier
this morning, we had small business
[music] confidence, small business
optimism falling to the lowest since
October 2024. Some of the sentiment
readings in this [music] economy not
great right now. So that's small
business consumer confidence. If you
look at you, Mitch, whether you put lots
of weight on you, Mitch, or not, I don't
know. But I can just tell you where the
data is and where it has been. Record
lows on consumer sentiment. Scarlet,
business confidence this morning on the
small business side [music] of things,
not great either.
>> And both of those always point to
inflation or at least uh business owners
and consumers perception of where
inflation is headed. And they think it's
going higher. And you have the data
tomorrow. You mentioned CPI. The [music]
estimate right now is for a 4.2% print
year-over-year. We're talking about the
four handle now. Increasingly, [music] I
don't just see this as a spot survey.
How do you feel about this economy in
isolation? It's the accumulation of all
the price increases over the last five
or 6 years that [music] I think is
really weighing on confidence on both
the business side for small businesses
and a consumer side too.
>> And the idea that wages have not kept
pace with that either because as much of
as we got a blockbuster jobs report, the
wage gains don't get to the same uh area
as the inflation number.
>> We're going to sit here tomorrow morning
and say inflation's up 4%. That's a
problem. [music] The consumer will be
like 4%. How about 30? 30 since the
pandemic. That's what they're feeling
and maybe a whole lot worse than that.
Equity futures right now in the S&P,
check it out. Positive followthrough
once again [music] up by 0.4% on the
S&P. On the NASDAQ, up by 0.9 on the
Russell this morning, higher by one full
percentage point. We're going to spend
lots of time on fixed income in just a
moment. Twos, tens, and 30s. [music]
Yields look like this. Down two basis
points at the front end of the curve.
just off the highs of the year. 10's at
down a basis point. Scarlet said it. CPI
could have a full handle tomorrow
morning. Unemployment is close to 4% as
well. And the Fed, as things stand, I
know that's set to change, [music] but
seriously, just think about it. Four on
unemployment, four on CPI. Bremo said it
repeatedly on this program, you've got a
Fed with an easing bias. Make sense of
that.
>> Well, possibly by next week they'll
remove that easing bias, but doesn't
mean that they're going to go towards a
tightening bias. Although, there's
plenty [music] of calls for that. And
the market is increasingly priced in at
least one full rate hype by the end of
this year.
>> Well, let's get to one of those calls
under surveillance this morning betting
on rate hikes. The case can be made for
a hike. Right now, we have inflation
that's been high for 5 years and
counting and moving in the wrong
direction and a labor market that at
least for the time being has shifted
maybe from stabilizing to strengthening.
But the outlook is very uncertain. The
probability or likelihood of a hike has
risen, [music]
but we want to see how the next few
months play out.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Investors awaiting this week's inflation
data following Friday's hot payrolls
sprint. Gonit Dingra and the team at BMP
Paraban are now calling for the Federal
Reserve to hike, writing, "We expect the
Fed to reverse 2025 insurance cuts at
sequential meetings beginning in
December. There can be no guarantee it
would stop at three." Ganite joins us
now for more. Gana, good morning. Good
to see you.
>> Good to see you as well.
>> You put out a note recently on fixed
income on 30-year yields as well. I'm
going to save some time for that. Let's
just start with the Fed call. It's
fresh. What changed your mind at BMP?
>> Yeah, so I think we've been arguing that
the Fed call depends on a couple of
reasons. The budding inflation risks are
visible in a couple of data points.
Number one, the labor market. We just
got the report that was the trigger for
making this change. We now think the
unemployment rate headed towards 4%. And
we also think there's a risk to
inflation expectations continuously
getting deankored. I think this is one
of the biggest blind spots I noticed
right now is every uh Fed official and
investors talk about the break even
market as somehow signaling that that
inflation expectations long-term are in
a good place. We strongly disagree. I
think the issue is the break even market
is probably underpricing the true
inflation risk by 20 30 basis points and
that's because if you think about the
risk on riskoff characteristics of the
market it tends to underperform in a
world of high risk. So what happens now
is every Fed official every investor
thinks the market's giving the Fed a
thumbs up on inflation expectations but
I would think of the break even market
as a faulty fire alarm. It's a
malfunctioning fire alarm. You rely on
it to get that signal, but you're not
getting it. And I feel like inflation
expectations, a tight labor market, both
are signaling cause for concern. We need
to see the Fed remove the easing bias
and ultimately remove the insurance cut
from last year. That leads us to three
hikes starting in December.
>> So, let's unpack some of that because
clearly the communication needs to
change and quickly and maybe that starts
next week. But on inflation, how
independent or dependent is this
conversation on what happens in the
Middle East and what happens with crude?
>> Yeah. So if you notice the bond market
for example, right now the bond market
is already decoupling from the oil
price, right? We it's already pretty
visible in the last couple of weeks. I
think what's crucial is people need not
get too carried away by the Middle East
war. Even if the war ends today
hypothetically, I think there's a lot of
inflation in the pipeline which is going
to affect the actual CPI numbers in the
coming uh in the coming weeks and
months. Also, the AI buildup is a
completely independent factor from the
uh from the war. So that continues to
keep a degree of economic strength. We
think the risk of a tightening has gone
up irrespective of the war. If the bond
market has decoupled from oil prices,
which was the single biggest driver of
yields for the last couple of weeks, um
what is it hanging its hat on? What's
driving it?
>> Yeah. So, I think the decoupling, if you
look at the explanation between why the
gap's opening up, it is the economic
data, right? We just saw the labor
market report for the third consecutive
print, uh up upside revisions in the
last two months, a massive beat, a
downward trickle on the unemployment
rate. Uh plus we we're also expecting
the inflation data to be another strong
print tomorrow. We got the PPI report
last month. I mean I don't need to give
you the litany of data points we've had.
Everything from the ISM to CPI to growth
numbers have been pretty stellar. M
>> so the bond market is coming to a
conclusion that the rest of the
committee is very much looking towards
moving the removing the easing bias
going towards perhaps a neutral bias
perhaps even a tightening bias and with
that the bond market is trying to frontr
run what's coming ahead on Fed policy
>> is the bond market trying to price in or
thinking that the economy is overheating
>> no I wouldn't say that yet I think the
bond market is trying to say look the
neutral rate itself is moving up so the
least you want to do
>> is to catch up to a higher neutral rate.
This is why I think long and yield also
need to keep going up because as the
neutral rate goes up long and use go up
front end use catch up to it. I don't
think the bond market's yet signaling a
significant degree of tightening coming
up because go back to 2122
when we had a a real tightening the
yield curve was getting inverted. We're
nowhere close to that. So I think at
this point the bond market's simply
catching up and saying look there's no
way easing bias can work here. Neutral
rates higher. We need to reverse the
insurance from last year.
>> Well let's sit on that. Let's bring up
the curve twos 10 tens and 30s and we'll
start at the front end of the curve. So
you've got twos of 415 around that level
right now. So trading above the policy
rate the Federal Reserve. So you've got
this market the front end of the curve
starting to think about rate hikes. But
further out if I compare twos to tens
I've got some flattening coming through
in the curve. Now, I know you haven't
got the inversion that signals you're
too tight. They haven't moved yet, but I
just wonder if that's just around the
corner or not. Why do you have the
belief that fives can break out? And as
I alluded to it in the tease for this
particular segment, why do you believe
that fives might be the floor and not
the ceiling at the long end of the
curve?
>> Yeah. So, I think uh the 5year uh the
30-year rate at 5% uh is getting
completely deankored, right? The problem
here is there's two things that people
expect, right? 5% there is no historical
level here. There's no historical level
for the last 20 years. So you can't look
at a historical chart and say hey at 525
suddenly we have a support. Secondly the
buyer base I think this is a very
crucial point. The buyer base of the
treasury market has changed a lot in the
last you know 12 to 24 months. Almost
90% of the overseas demand for
treasuries is now made by financial
centers. So think of Luxembourg, think
of think of UK, think of Belgium.
Previously it was mostly driven by more
central bank type flows which was more
yield sensitive. So yield levels at 5%
attractive level buy in. Now because
financial centers are driving those uh
those flows, it's not as yield sensitive
but a lot more macro sensitive, momentum
sensitive and relative value sensitive
>> and therefore more volatile.
>> Exactly. more volatile I think. So the
deanchoring is kind of going to lend
itself to more volatility obviously. The
other part about going above 5% also is
uh because I mentioned relative value
you have to think of this in the context
of where are stocks right stocks have
obviously gone up and I think back to
2023 when people were trying to lock in
their stock market gains by looking at
what the hedge could be and one of the
popular hedges in 2023 was to have
higher rates in the long end that can
quote unquote stop the party. So right
now I also think of the long bond yield
going up also as a hedge to slowing down
the momentum in the equity market.
>> Let's just stay on that. The corrective
action that we got a couple of years ago
from the Treasury was Jenny Yen back
then really tightened up issuance and
brought a lot of it to the front end.
You've talked about the need for
corrective action from Treasury. They've
already played that hand once. Can they
play it again?
>> Yeah. So I think what the treasury has
done so far they have taken all those
small steps like buybacks. They've taken
all those small steps like issuing
everything in T bills what we call T
bill and chill. So they've done that,
but the problem is the next step left is
similar to what you described in 2023
where you have to have some degree of
changes to long- end supply, very
explicit changes, so coupon cuts or
supply cuts, that can happen. But the
fact that a month ago when we had the
quarterly refunding meeting and we did
not get any signal from the Treasury
when 30 years were at 5% but there's
going to be a supply change tells me
there is comfort level at these 5% years
for now. Maybe the strike for this
so-called Treasury put is closer to 525
perhaps even 550.
>> You alluded to what might get us there.
I've brought up this conversation a few
times in the last few days. The amount
of paper that's being issued in equity
and in debt. Could there be some
crowding out that might squeeze the long
end of this curve?
>> Yeah, absolutely. So, I think uh 2023 is
the perfect example where we had about a
15 20% gain in the stock market. People
towards the uh third quarter in 23 were
talking about how to lock in those gains
and one of the popular hedges at that
time was to play for higher bond yields.
I think right now is a very similar
backdrop. Uh that's why I feel like you
need to see higher bond yields not only
to adjust to a more fundamental higher
neutral but also just to keep the uh
rest of the risky market value in check.
>> Interesting. Gate appreciate your time
buddy. It's good to see you. Lots to
think about here. Gate Dingra there of
Bmp Parabar. How the 30-year could
become increasingly untethered more
volatile to your point Scarlet and why
the central bank will be hiking not
cutting starting in December going three
times and maybe more.
>> That's a call that's definitely out
there. What we do know is, of course,
the Fed begins its two-day meeting next
week and Kevin Walsh will uh be helming
his first FOMC. Whether he gives any
indication of where he personally
stands, that remains to be seen. He's
for a less communicative Fed, it
appears.
>> I'd imagine that wasn't in his plans or
in the interview over at the White House
a number of months ago. Up next on the
program, Matt Maskin of John Hancock
Investments, Gil Laura of DA Davidson,
David Se of Neora, Nisha Patel of
Parametric. The third hour of Bloomberg
surveillance just around the corner.
>> [music]
>> The equity market is showing an enormous
amount of resilience.
>> Money doesn't want to leave the asset
class of equities. The beauty of the US
is we have the most robust, deepest,
broadest markets in the world. You have
a very broad equity market. There are
always good valuations [music] in the
equity market.
>> If this falls off the tracks, I think
you're going to see a major market
correction.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
[music] and An Marie Hordern.
>> No correction this morning. Live from
New York City this morning. Good
morning. Good morning. For our audience
worldwide, the third hour Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now with
futures up again. This time by a third
of 1%, adding to yesterday's mild gains
on the S&P 500. Up again on the NASDAQ
by 0.8% the semis on Friday down by more
than 10% [music] bouncing back on
Monday. up again this Tuesday morning on
Nvidia by about 3/10en of 1% on Broadcom
by one on Intel [music] by two in the
bond market fantastic conversation with
BMP parabas going to be dingra just
moments ago and why this fed they
believe [music] is going to be hiking
rates in December and then again and
then again and maybe more than that twos
this morning at 41348 yields coming in a
bit we're down three basis points on
twos on 10's down a basis point to 455
hed by this move in crude WTI and Bren
declining this morning negative by
[music] 1.6% 6% on Bren 92 down from 98
at one point in yesterday's session. WTI
breaking 90 89 there's a lot of hope in
this market still scarlet there's a lot
of hope in that energy market too.
>> Yeah absolutely and the knee-jerk
reaction of [music] course is to this
idea from President Trump that there
will be some kind of resolution there
will be some kind of deal uh for now
that's enough for investors and of
course you have a market mood that's
fairly buoyant because of the upcoming
SpaceX IPO pricing on Thursday
potentially trading on Friday. Are
central banks about to ruin the party?
Coming up this week, keep this one in
mind. ECB decision this coming Thursday,
gearing up to hike interest rates the
following week, next Wednesday, the
Federal Reserve gearing up to drop its
easing bias. Now, I'm not saying that
this is getting [music] aggressive
quickly, but suddenly it's moving in a
direction where things are starting to
tighten up just a little bit.
>> It's slowly tiptoeing into the
possibility of rate hikes. Uh first they
have to drop the easing bias and that's
a big move and that'll be considered a
victory for Kevin Worst the new incoming
Fed chair if he just leaves it at that.
>> Gene Ingram thinks the yields can move
higher at the long end of the curve as
well 30s this morning still around 5%
just holding on to those levels so far
today. Coming up this hour we'll catch
up with Matt Miskin of John Hancock as
the rebounded chip steadies the market.
Gil Laura of DA Davidson as open AAI
moves to go public and Nisha Patel of
Parametric on the top risks facing a new
wash Fed. We begin this out with stocks
edging higher as enthusiasm returns to
AI. Matt Miskin of John Hancock writing,
"Markets are becoming the tail wagging
the dog. Liquidity events could derail
the economic improvement and change the
macro picture rather quickly." Matt
joins us now for more. Matt, welcome to
the program. Just for our audience that
maybe haven't read the context around
those comments, just build it out just a
little bit for us even further. Matt,
what are you getting?
Yeah, given the title wave here of IPOs
that are going to be hitting the market
over the next several months, the need
for liquidity is massive. And also,
you've got these high free cash flow
companies that were making tons of money
before they now need to tap the equity
markets with issuance. So, you got that
on top of this IPO wave. And it with all
this playing on the equity market,
you've got central banks all over the
world looking to tighten policy. So,
like you said, the ECB raising rates
this week. We've got a PPI CPI report to
get through. And you you kind of see
these two massive forces intersecting
here in the next several months. And I
think for us, the economy is actually
the smaller piece of the story. The
markets are so massive on a relative
basis. It's like two times now as large
equity market capitalization verse the
the economy. So, the markets are wagging
the economy, not the other way around.
And liquidity is the most important
factor for these markets to keep on
rallying.
>> We've talked about that old phrase a few
times that markets can shape the events
they anticipate and they can in many
ways when you're this big. Matt,
liquidity starting to tighten up. That's
what you're focused on the potential for
that to happen. Why are you seeing signs
of indigestion at the moment ahead of
all that supply?
>> Yeah, as of now it's it's holding up
well. I mean, you just keep hearing
about a new deal every single day within
the tech space and that's providing more
and more liquidity, but it's being
absorbed and it's being massively
concentrated. So, every equity market in
the world is now basically a technology
stock index. So, before I could come on
and say, look, you could go into value,
you go into international, you could go
into emerging markets, it's all now
tech. Semiconductors have gone
everywhere and made it into every single
equity index in the world. And now the
concentration risk is massive. So it
just gets harder and harder to keep
adding to technology everywhere in the
world because in emerging markets for
example, it's basically three stocks
that are driving the whole index. Even
in US midcap and small cap stocks, it's
now technology value is now
semiconductor stocks. So how much more
can this play out? In our view, it is
becoming more and more important to try
to diversify away from this. We do have
technology. I'm not saying the quality
that isn't there, the earnings aren't
there, but the momentum and the
concentration risk are becoming an
increasingly big factor and it's going
to be hard to ignore here as more IPOs
in the tech space are on deck.
>> So, Matt, if it's all one trade, what's
the other trade? Where do you find
diversification?
>> Yeah, and I mean it's hard, John. Like,
you gota momentum this powerful if if
you're if you're not in the momentum,
it's almost anti-momentum. And for us
though, you've got to have something in
between. Industrials to us are are a
pretty positive place to be on a global
basis. You've got capex, you've got
accelerating depreciation. The economy
is a bit better starting the year.
You've also got defense spending.
Industrials typically hold up in terms
of earnings amidst any economic slowdown
because they're longer live contracts.
The higher ROE can help. They're higher
quality businesses, but the valuations
aren't super attractive. they are
drafting off the AI trade. Um, drafting
to us is the way to look at this market.
So, if you know you're trying to
outperform and you're getting that FOMO
right now into the equity market, try to
resist that and try to draft off this
market, find good value, high quality
names that still could participate, but
you're probably going to be hard to
outperform this semiconductor momentum
uh train that has been rallying so
strong. Matt, you make a great case for
why people need to diversify, but this
has been the situation for months on end
now, and it's nothing new, right? The
the argument for why you need to
diversify away from tech as well as the
US. What will be the catalyst for a
meaningful effort on investors parts to
reduce some of their overconentration in
big tech, whether it's in equities,
whether it's in credit?
>> Yeah, so your prior guest laid out the
uh case pretty well for the Fed to raise
rates here pretty aggressively into the
back half. In our view, the economy
isn't as strong as actually the headline
suggests. You know, if you look at right
now, we are in a fiscal sugar rush. We
just cut corporate taxes. We just gave a
bunch of tax refunds, tariff refunds.
We're dropping the strategic petroleum
reserves at a record pace. So, we are
just helping this economy in every way
we can. And it feels good because it's a
sugar rush. But if you have kids, you'll
realize the other side of the sugar rush
is this hangover effect. And in the back
half, we think that's going to happen
where basically the fiscal positives are
going to start to fade off and then the
Fed's going to tap the brakes and
central banks are going to start tapping
the brakes in the back half. And we
think that's going to in underneath the
hood, too. We've got the World Cup, too.
So, not only do we have all this fiscal,
but the World Cup is helping with jobs.
NFIB just missed. The employment picture
looks weaker there. Indeed, job openings
are weaker. And some of these business
surveys too, they're showing two
different planets in terms of how
they're coming in. The S&P PMI and the
ISM. But if central banks around the
world start tightening into the back
half and the economy isn't as strong as
the market thinks, that to me would be a
great catalyst [snorts] for rotation.
We've got bonds yielding 5% in high
quality space. No one wants to touch
them, but 5% isn't a bad alternative,
right, given uh where equities stand
today.
>> Yeah. um the day after Halloween is
never a good day for any household with
young children uh following that sugar
high. So the idea that we need to see
the Federal Reserve or other central
banks start to raise interest rates
would be the signal or would be one
signal potentially of people uh rotating
out. That means this can continue
through the summer. So how extended or
overextended can things get in the
interim? Well, you know, it's it's a dip
buyers dream market and you know, every
day you wake up and and there's a new
headline that's kind of supporting
markets. It's helping oil come off. Um,
you know, oversold was used to be a
technical indicator and and basically
the RSI is no longer even relevant to
this market. But, um, what
[clears throat] you're seeing again with
these IPOs and with this momentum, it
does look stretched. It does look like
it needs more of a breather. Um it it is
always difficult to you know kind of t
call the tops and and that's why we're
not we're not trying to do that. We're
trying to draft. We are in higher
quality markets. We are down in cap a
bit uh into cheaper markets. We are
leaning into the bond market a bit uh
providing that 5% income stream and
relatively high quality bonds. Um and so
to us again we're back to that drafting
kite type mentality. Um, and momentum
can be a great force, but it can turn
and whipsaw fast. You're just going to
be want to be careful of that as central
banks start to raise rates here in the
next couple months.
>> Matt, we've mentioned this a few times
already this week. The last two summers.
We've gone into a summer of labor market
weakness followed by rate cuts from the
Federal Reserve. This setup for this
summer feels different. Payrolls much
better than expected, topping all
forecasts on Friday. Not just one month,
the last three months, the three-month
advance, the strongest in more than two
years. But Matt, you said something that
got my attention. You said the World
Cup, and it got my attention for other
reasons, too. But of course, you're
talking about the jobs market. You're
not the only one making this point,
Matt. Are you suggesting that the
strength on the labor side might be a
bit ahead of a head fake this summer?
>> Yeah, exactly. So, if you look at the
last jobs report, 70,000 of the jobs
were in leisure and hospitality. That is
the World Cup likely. Other than that,
35,000 was in healthcare. 50,000 was
government and you know that government
jobs. I it looks like it's kind of maybe
doing some buildout somewhere for
another event. But a lot of these are
shorter term things. I know the
revisions were a bit better. Healthc
care has been the single job driver. But
again, look at Indeed job openings. They
just actually fell meaningfully here in
the last several weeks. Link up is
another job data resource. They're
showing job decreases. Um the Jolts
report bmed through but again 700,000 of
that was leisure and hospital. It was
one sector. So I think again you're
you're looking at this sugar rush and
and the World Cup is another sugar rush
for the economy and I think that's going
to fade and underneath the hood of the
jobs market. It isn't as strong as it
looks. And this that the Fed right now
needs to almost act like a speedboat.
They need to be able to tactically raise
rates and then potentially cut rates as
this fiscal sugar rush comes through.
They're not built for that. They're
built to be a tanker. Usually, this is
longer term stuff. Monetary policy works
with a long lag and it makes it very
difficult for a new Fed chairman to come
in, have to address this because they
can't rely on the transitory language
anymore. They they really, you know,
kind of wore that out in past cycles.
So, they need to address it. The bond
vigilantes are likely going to be in
charge. They're the most powerful force
on the planet. So, I think they're going
to do the job for them here over the
summer. But, watch for something to
break based on liquidity. If it gets too
tight too fast, things can change fast.
Again, that's why we're playing a little
bit of defense, trying to participate in
this market, but doing so in a higher
quality way. That begs the question,
Matt, just to wrap it up, if the bond
vigilantes are going to take over, just
take charge for now. Why buy bonds in a
face of that?
>> Because the yields go up and then you
get greater yield. So, at the end of the
day, you know, we're sitting here
saying, "Okay, we're at four and a half
on high quality bonds. If we get to
five, you know, we're going to probably
look at it opportunistically to add
more." Um, you know, bond vigilantes
often sell into this and then you can
buy at great yields. Um, you know, if I
can get five, five and a half on high
quality bonds and if and if some credit
mild credits more like six, to me that
sounds really attractive. You know, our
long-term return forecast for equities
is like 6 to 8%. If we start to get
bonds yielding almost 6% with a third of
the Vall, that's a nice opportunity. For
now, we're waiting it out. We're being
patient. And if we get another
opportunity to add here in the next
couple months on weaker economic data
and kind of a sugar rush that fades, not
a bad little setup for the end of the
year.
>> Are you just bitter because you didn't
get tickets either, Matt? I didn't get
tickets either
way. It's too expensive. You work on it,
buddy. Matt Miskin there of John
Hancock. Thank you, sir. Never mind. The
US Opens expensive enough in September.
That's crazy prices. The Knicks last
night, crazy prices. There was a story
on the Bloomberg that in 1994, the last
time the US hosted the World Cup, the
finals uh tickets were about $725. This
time around, yes, that's right. This
time around, it's upwards of $10,000.
So, there's inflation at work for you.
>> The amount of wealth in this country is
just overwhelming. Absolutely
overwhelming. Up next on the program,
the Morning Calls Plus, Gil Laura of DAD
Davidson, as Open AI begins to push to
go public. That conversation just around
the corner live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
>> [music]
>> They have to go public with anthropic
going public. If you're a a hyperscaler
and you have large contracts outstanding
to open AAI and Anthropic, I would be
very encouraged at the prospect of both
of them going public. So perhaps they
want to have some optionality on timing.
But I think with Anthropic going public,
Open AI needs to go public and sooner
the better.
>> Tom Ford of Maxim Group on the mega IPOs
we're expecting for the year ahead. It
starts this week with SpaceX anthropic.
Most people believe they'll follow
pretty soon after and then OpenAI
finally to do the same thing maybe at
some point later this year. That's how
the stage is set for the IPOs. Let's get
to the price [music] action. Equity
futures this morning positive again up
by 0.4% on the S&P. On the NASDAQ higher
by 3/4 to 1% on the Russell up by 0.9.
That's the price action. Here are your
morning calls. First up, Barclays
keeping an underweight rating on Apple
saying its new AI features are not
enough to drive an upgrade cycle. That
stock is down again this morning by 3/4
to [music] 1%. Your second call from
Bank of America raising its price target
on Oracle to 240, seeing robust demand
across cloud infrastructure. That name
is up by 1.7%. And finally, TD Coward
boosting his price target on Alphabet to
475. Expecting sharp growth in
enterprise and consumer AI demand. That
name up by 3/4 of 1%. Let's get to those
[music] IPOs. OpenAI entering the race
to go public submitting its confidential
filing for an IPO. Gil Laura of DA
Davidson writing what OpenAI does not
want is for the public market capital to
exhaust itself. It [music] does not want
to be the third and last of the large
IPOs. Gil joins us now for more. And
Gil, welcome to the program. That might
not be the only thing to worry about.
Not just the IPOs, but also Alphabet
with an upsized capital raise as well in
the last week. And Gil, as you pointed
out before we even got the rumor from
the FT on Meta, you might see Meta and
the others follow. Gil will just frame
for us how much equity we could see
coming to this market in the next six
months.
>> Hundreds of billions of dollars of new
equity because Microsoft, Amazon, and
Meta just took note that Google that
Alphabet just had a very successful
equity raise. They the the stock held up
even as they issued 40 something billion
dollars of equity. They were able to
raise debt at the same time all at a
very low cost of capital. And this is a
war for capital. So this is where it's
at. And these companies are are filing a
secondary. So they can do that overnight
while the IPOs take time to go through.
So the the um big companies that are
already public are going to the capital
markets and draining them before many of
these IPOs are happening. SpaceX will
hopefully happen this Friday, but OpenAI
and Anthropic may get to a market that's
somewhat depleted. Now, the demand for
those IPOs is going to be so great that
they'll do fine, but the market is
finite and we've already seen some
volatile days where investors have been
selling stock to free up capacity to
participate in these offerings and IPOs.
So, it's getting crowded out there.
>> Gil, how much tolerance is there at say
a meta to really stomach the investor
push back? What was intriguing about
Friday was just how quickly that stock
rolled over just on the mere report in
the FT that maybe they'd follow Alphabet
and do something similar. Is that
something they can stomach? Are we
underestimating their tolerance for
that?
>> Well, Mr. Zuckerberg has controlling
interest and he's shown that his
perspective is always long-term. He
rarely tries to uh to satisfy investors
in the short term. If he feels like this
is the time to go out and get the
capital, he'll do so. he'd rather do it
at a higher price, but he's shown
through his spending and through uh
being very clear about the fact that
he's investing ahead of demand that he
has tolerance for that. And if he thinks
capital is the key to compete right now,
he'll go out and get capital regardless
of where the stock is.
>> Gail, you said the market is finite.
Where is the market finite? It's not for
the big AI IPOs that we're talking about
here, whether it's SpaceX, um,
Anthropic, and eventually Open AI. It's
not for Alphabet's equity raised and
upsized equity raised at that. Uh
potentially it might be for Meta or at
least a hint of it. But where do you see
that really that that rubber hitting the
road?
>> Yeah, it's all the public companies
especially in technology could sell off
as we get this uh supply of capital
including the largest companies, right?
So they're they're trying to get out.
That's why Google was ahead of the
curve. they got out while the while at a
peak and and the other ones may not get
that benefit. Uh the all Meta uh
Microsoft and Amazon are already off
their peaks. Uh so so there's going to
be selling in those selling in a lot of
other technology stocks as we get these
IPOs. It doesn't it can happen any time.
It can happen the day before and it can
happen weeks before, but investors do
have to free up capacity. Investors are
mostly invested at this point. There's
been not as much cash on the sidelines
as usual. And so they're going to have
to investors are going to have to free
up capital from all their public company
holdings, especially in technology and
including the largest ones in order to
fund their investment in these IPOs.
These floats are pretty decent size.
We're talking about SpaceX doing at
least 75 billion on Friday. Open AAI and
Anthropic may be at the same scale. They
all need the capital. They're all losing
money. They all need to fund their
compute and their buildouts. So, they're
going to go out with pretty big floats.
And the capital has to come from
somewhere.
>> The capital has to come from somewhere.
And you mentioned it might mean people
lightening up on some of their holdings
in big tech, but what other parts of the
tech universe are most vulnerable?
>> Yeah. I mean, the AI trade in some parts
of it has has gone up quite a bit,
right? because investors haven't been
able to invest in open AAI and anthropic
yet. They've been investing in uh
increasingly remote parts of the AI
trade. Some smaller semis companies,
optical companies, nuclear companies,
all of these have been plays on AI
because you couldn't buy open anthropic.
Those with the higher valuations and
those tangential parts of the AI trade
are most at risk. I'd say that some of
the core AI trades are actually not that
expensive. If you look at Nvidia and
Micron and Microsoft, these are
companies that are critical for
deployment of AI, their multiples are
still low. But as you start getting
further away from that with AMD and
Intel and optical and u and again even
nuclear or quantum, you're starting to
get really high valuations. Those are
the most vulnerable. G, I just wanted to
finish up on a line of questioning that
Scarlet opened up a little bit earlier
on this morning on OpenAI and why
they're still private and why they seem
to be dragging their feet a little bit
as well. Why they're choosing ultimately
to be last? What are the benefits of
them staying private at the moment? Why
do you think they're somewhat hesitant?
>> There's a lot of gamesmanship opening
happening between OpenAI and Anthropic.
Whoever goes first gets to drive the
narrative for what metrics are
important, how to report their numbers
and and you don't want to be second
because of the conversation we just had
about capital. So the reason OpenAI
rushed for a confidential filing is to
make sure they have an opportunity
either before to either be before
Anthropic or soon after and and continue
to drive the narrative. Otherwise, they
let Anthropic do that. Now, as they did
that, Sam Alman communicated that he'd
rather stay private. And the reason he'd
rather stay private is he's losing quite
a bit of money, and he can as a private
company only disclose the metrics he
wants. So, he'd rather stay private, but
he also doesn't want to go after
anthropic. That's the gamesmanship
that's happening right now.
>> Gil, it's good to see you as always.
Thank you, buddy. Thanks for framing
things. Gil Laura there of DA Davidson.
Anthropic versus OpenAI and SpaceX in
the mix too over the next week.
>> It's so fascinating because there is a
finite amount of money. We just haven't
seen it yet because it's all chasing the
same thing. But at some point, and it
may very well be something like an
economic data point or a central bank
raising rates or it could be something
completely unexpected that triggers it.
>> Someone's getting squeezed, that's for
sure. Coming up next on the program,
David Se of Neora expecting inflation to
call ahead of Fed Share Walsh's first
rate decision. Kevin Walsh's first rate
decision next week. Before we get
[music] to that, CPI on Wednesday and
then PPI a little bit later. A preview
with David in just a moment. Equity
futures on the S&P positive by a third
of 1% [music] on the S&P 500. on the
NASDAQ up by 0.7. The opening bow about
an hour away
about 60 minutes away into the cash
open. Equity futures positive by 0.4%
4%. Some positive follow through.
Another bounce here up by 3/4 of 1% on
the NASDAQ. We talked about the
downdraft, the aggressive [music] move
lower for the semis after a very
aggressive move higher. The aggressive
move lower on Friday, down 10%, bouncing
back yesterday and bouncing [music]
again this morning, positive once more.
In the bond market, twos, tens, and 30s.
Yield shaping up as follows. Yields down
by two basis points, 413.
Base case for next week is this Federal
Reserve is dropping its easing bias.
Feels [music] like a step too far maybe
to introduce a hawkish bias.
>> Not yet. Not yet.
>> This Federal Reserve moves very slowly.
As you know, Scarlet.
>> Yes. Uh I think someone compared it to a
tanker where it needs to be a speedboat
because conditions are changing so
rapidly.
>> You slip into neutral then maybe it
takes a while to debate a hawkish bias
and then maybe a debate a rate hike down
the road. Remember how long it took to
wind down QE just to say we're going to
stop doing QE and then we'll hike
interest.
>> Well, this is not your father's Federal
Reserve anymore. So
>> rapidly [music] getting away from us. So
equities and bonds doing okay this
morning. encouraged by this move in
crude. WTI Brent Brent crude down by
about 2% this morning called it 1.3
mentioned this a few times at one point
yesterday $98 a barrel on Brent crude up
5% on the session and then all of a
sudden it started to roll over as the
president suggested we'd see a ceasefire
between Iran and Israel and kept saying
once again we're getting closer and
closer to a deal. [music] It's working.
We're down by 1.8%. WTI to 8960 [music]
this morning. Let's talk about the data
ahead of us. CPI tomorrow, PPI on
Thursday, and Fed chair Kevin Walsh's
first read on inflation will be followed
by his first rate decision a week on
Wednesday. Bloomberg Slea Mosen joins us
now for more. Slea, welcome to the
program. It's good to see you up from
Washington DC here in New York City.
Just out frame for us the debate down in
Washington right now ahead of this
meeting just a week away.
>> It seems like what we're in up for next
week is a a theme of opposing forces. On
the one hand, inflation could very well
come in kind of hot tomorrow based on
how energy prices have developed over
the last few months. But then we had
last week's labor market report, a
blowout jobs report that showed that
it's a hot market. Lots of things are
running hot, but that pulls the interest
rate picture in opposite directions. And
then we have Donald Trump versus the
bond market. The $ 31 trillion
treasuries market is saying to Kevin
Worsh, rates need to be higher. But
President Donald Trump on Sunday on Meet
the Press said Kevin Worsh should cut
rates. So Wars needs to perform for the
president to keep his job. He needs to
perform for markets uh to keep his
credibility and to build his credibility
and also find a way to build consensus
on a board at the Fed and FOMC that is
pulling apart a little bit.
>> That line that you just mentioned, I
just want to drill down on that. He
needs to perform for the president to
keep his job. Do you actually believe
that's the case? That's what the case
seemed to be for Jay Powell. But he did
not take that bait. He did not perform
for anyone. But he heard a lot from the
president. He heard a lot of information
uh of incoming. The president called him
a bonehead. Said he wanted to fire him
over and over and over again. Uh and we
don't know where Trump is going to land
when Worsh delivers his first decision
driving that committee. How much is
Trump going to pay attention to? Did the
committee support Kevin Walsh or is he
able to make the changes that uh the
president wants or does he need to find
another scapegoat to blame that on?
>> Can we just set on willingness versus
ability? The president might be willing.
He might attempt to get rid of some
people on the institution. Haven't we
learned that he doesn't have the
ability?
>> We're going to learn a little bit more
about that. We think this month the
Supreme Court ruling or the opinion on
Lisa Cook and Trump's attempts to fire
her. We're expecting that. We don't know
for sure. Uh sometime in June. It could
be next week right after the the FOMC
meeting. It could be this week. We will
learn more about what the parameters for
the US president is in his ability, his
or her ability to fire a sitting Fed
governor.
>> Salah, it's good to see you as always.
Bloomberg still host in there on the
latest at the Federal Reserve down in
Washington DC. In any other year under
any other president, Republican
president, Kevin Walsh would have just
been an establishment selection to run
this institution. and the unwarranted,
ill-advised attacks on this institution
by the president over the last few
months have made that job so difficult
for him, so needlessly difficult that
anything he does will be framed in just
the way it was framed then that somehow
he's doing the president's bidding.
>> Yeah. And that this was certainly um
hammered home during his uh confirmation
hearings with the Democrats really
slamming him for whether he'd be willing
to be the president's I believe they use
the word sock puppet uh over and over
again. But it's it's a difficult
situation. But we do know that Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson has kind of paved
the way at least to President Trump
making the case that right now rates
can't be cut because of where things
stand with inflation.
>> Got to give him a chance. See how this
works out over the next few months.
David Se of Neora writes the following
on inflation. We expect core CPI
inflation to decelerate to 0.2% for May
below consensus. David joins us now for
more. David, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Where does that below consensus call
come from? Well, the biggest single
thing that that is going to bring it
down from the month before is that we
had in the April print this this rent
issue and that was a legacy from the
shutdown back in October. So, that will
have faded and that's going to bring it
down uh from the point4. Um it's not
exactly clear uh why many other
forecasters have it at 3. uh we would
actually say that not only is our is our
uh point forecast uh 02, but we actually
think that 0.1 would be more likely
than.3 uh for core CPI. Um I should
clarify though that this is a one-mon
print that we're coming up with and uh
there's nothing in the data that leads
us to believe that inflation is is
slowing down on a on a steadier basis uh
so to speak. So yeah, we're seeing that
rent issue fade. We are going to see
also some of the effects of the tariffs
which have now been in place for a while
uh fade on a sort of year-over-year
basis uh even a month-over-month basis
but inflation remains above target and
and if anything you know when we look at
the Fed's preferred measure which is
core PCE uh we see that rising uh from
3.3% on a year-over-year basis last
month to 3.4% on a year-over-year basis
uh in in this upcoming print uh in a
couple of weeks. So really moving in the
wrong direction.
>> Why do you have a peak?
>> Uh we think 3.4% may well be the peak,
but it is uh it's not something that is
going to return anywhere close to 2% uh
this year.
>> Of course, the big data points are CPI
tomorrow and then PPI the day after. But
we did get some data this morning at
8:30. The trade balance came in and the
trade gap narrowed in April as exports
rose faster than imports. It shrank 1.2%
uh to $55.9 billion. Once upon a time
during the first Trump administration,
this data point mattered a lot. He kind
of used the trade balance as a scorecard
for whether he was winning or losing
because that was when he was really
keeping an eye on trade and our trade
deals with other countries. Is this
still a politically sensitive data point
anymore? I think it's a lot less
sensitive than before and I would I
would go a little bit further than that
even and say that because of the uh
closure of the street of Hormuz and what
that has done to US oil exports uh it
probably has even less importance in
terms of sort of the long run trajectory
of the economy until things return to
normal there and and who knows when that
will be of course.
>> Okay. So, how do you expect Fed Chair
Kevin Worsh to fold in rising oil prices
and the state of the state of Hormuz,
which at this point is for all intents
and purposes not open?
>> Yeah, it it seems as though the Fed and
and and frankly this is one thing where
we uh really do expect continuity from
Powell to Worsh to to really look
through uh the closure of the straight
of Hormuz. Um and uh that probably is uh
a very reasonable thing to do especially
in the case of the Fed. Uh couple of
reasons for that. One, um as much as the
Fed has received criticism under Powell
for sort of saying every single uh push
up in inflation was a temporary thing,
uh this really is an energy uh shock
more than anything else. And so it's not
something that will have that big of an
effect on core inflation, which of
course the other side of which is uh to
say that core inflation is rising for
reasons that are totally separate from
uh Iran. On top of that, um the closure
of the straight of Hormuz is likely to
affect the US and I'd say also the
Canadian economy uh far less than the
rest of the world because the US and
Canada have a separate natural gas
market because the US is a net oil
exporter. So it is probably reasonable
to uh look through it more than other
central banks seem to be willing to do.
>> There's still price takers in this
economy. We may not have a shortage, but
we still have to accept the price. And
you mentioned the energy shock. We've
also had a shock for goods. We've had a
shock for labor. Negative supply shocks
across both. And now energy. And now
you've got these race insensitive
spenders, major major companies going
out there and spending hundreds of
billions of dollars and pushing it into
this economy. How does that end with
anything other than above target
inflation?
>> Well, I think that the rate insensitive
uh purchasers, the hyperscalers, uh that
really hits the nail on the head. And of
course that is something that is
happening uh totally separately from uh
the the uh conflict in the Middle East
and the
>> Fed look through that too.
>> No, the Fed should not be looking
through that. That is that is inflation
or overheating you know from econ 101.
This is increased demand outstripping
supply and raising prices and it is very
hard to think of a a good justification
for looking through what simply appears
to be demand outpacing supply. Do you
anticipate the Fed commenting or Kevin
Wars saying anything about the buoyancy
in markets, the the fact that stocks are
near record highs even after Friday's
short um sell-off and with yields uh
being much more volatile than they have
been in the past?
>> I think it you know first uh meeting of
a new chair especially one that
represents such a break from his
predecessor. Um lot of things could
happen. I it wouldn't shock me to see
him uh to see him do this. Uh Kevin
Worsh I think is a a really an excellent
public speaker. Um probably uh one of if
not the best public speakers ever to uh
to uh take the position of Fed chair. Uh
but it's always tough your first
meeting. I mean you've seen Fed chairs
often, you know, have a bumpy first
couple of meetings. Now I think I think
Worsh is going to uh get up to speed
really fast in terms of uh doing a good
job at these press conferences, etc. But
uh I think you know the the first step
is to try to just sort of establish
himself as someone who can run one of
these press conferences in a way that uh
that hits all the points and uh make
sure to attempt to represent uh uh
everybody on the committee which is
theoretically what the the chair is
supposed to do in that uh FOMC press
conference.
>> Lisa is not on this committee this
morning. She's off the show. She's back
tomorrow. But she'd asked the following
question. She's asked it a few times.
I'd love your reaction to it. the easing
bass at the Federal Reserve. It's the
chairman pal hangover for chair wash and
he's got to deal with it in a week's
time. Yet we can't identify a single
policy maker and they've all spoken
pretty much who supports the easy bus at
the Federal Reserve. So why was it still
in there at the last news conference
when that statement came out?
>> Yeah, I mean it's hard to understand
exactly what was going on there. I do
think that there was uh arguably a
fairly benign explanation which is it's
it's a little cheeky of of a outgoing
Fed chair in his or her very last
meeting to make such a fundamental
change and and sort of hamstring uh uh
his successor. Um, I would certainly
expect that the easing bias will be
dropped. And I think there's a question,
will they simply just uh say there is no
real uh bias either way and and and
that's their forward guidance or will
they go a step further um and just get
rid of forward guidance alto together uh
in a more uh comprehensive way. It's
something that Worsh has probably never
been a big fan of given his public
statements. And so that may actually be
a nice compromise the Hawks between the
Hawks and the Doves, which is to say the
Hawks don't want that easing bias in
there and Worsh can say as a as
presumably a dove, well, let's just get
rid of any forward guidance whatsoever.
Um, wouldn't shock me to see a a much
shorter statement uh next week.
>> Some people might be pushing for a
hawkish bias, never mind dropping the
easing bias. No doubt. I've been trying
to prepare the team for for next week,
and I mentioned that maybe the news
conference just isn't very long. Maybe
it's pretty short. maybe doesn't take
that many questions. How are you
thinking about what we might see next
week, how the sequencing of things might
build out?
>> Yeah, I think I think there's a real
risk that that it'll be a very short uh
press conference uh or at least a
shorter press conference than before. I
think another thing that's very
interesting is uh there will be a dot
plot. There's there's uh at least some
reporting that Wars may decline to uh
submit a dot, so we'll only get 18 dots
in that situation. and he may he may
talk about um starting to set the stage
for uh less less information being given
to the public. This is something that he
has has wanted to do. So so starting to
get rid of the the dot plot or set the
stage for getting rid of the dot plot as
I said before eliminating forward
guidance altogether from the uh from the
speech uh from from the statement and he
may send spend some of his press
conference doing uh doing some of that.
David Se of Neora. David, thank you.
David Se of Neora going into Kevin
Walsh's first Federal Reserve meeting
next week. Just set the stage. Imagine
he attempts to do that just to remove
the forward guidance and then over the
next week everyone on the committee
offers their own forward guidance on
where they think policy is going to be
and then essentially what you've done is
outsource policy to the rest of the
committee and deemphasize the seat of
Federal Reserve chair. That's the risk
you run if you try and do that. You
can't tell Federal Reserve presidents,
regional Fed presidents, they can't go
out and talk.
>> And they're going to I mean, they've
talked a lot more than they have in 10
years, 20 years past. Um the big
question for me is whether he brings up
the idea of shrinking the balance sheet
because he was going on and on about
that before this turn in inflation
higher. I don't know that that's going
to be part of the conversation at least
next week.
>> If there is some Q&A, we expect some
Q&A, but if there is some Q&A, I imagine
there'll be a few questions on the
balance sheet next week. Let's see how
short that news conference is. Short
statement, short news conference. Up
next, we'll set you up for the day
ahead. Plus, Nisha Patel of Parametric
on the top risk facing this Federal
Reserve. That conversation [music]
just around the corner from New York
City. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
But I would think of the break even
market as a faulty fire alarm. You rely
on it to get that signal, but you're not
getting it. Inflation expectations, a
tight labor market, both are signaling
cause for concern. We need to see the
Fed remove the easing bias and
ultimately remove the insurance cut from
last year. That leads us to three hikes
starting in December.
>> Such an interesting call from BMP
Paraba. [music] That was Ganed Dingra of
BMP Paraba on the program a little bit
earlier this morning talking about
taking back the three cuts from last
year 2525 [music]
and hiking 25
starting in December and then going
again [music] and again. also had an
interesting note on the long end of the
bond curve, the yield curve on 30s. He
thinks that could become untethered.
Could see a shift higher on 30s. [music]
If you missed that, catch him again on
Thursday. Bloomberg real yield scallop
food coming up a little bit later this
week. Equity futures look like this
going into a massive week ahead. Lots of
inflation data, CPI tomorrow, PPI after
that. Then next week, a Federal Reserve
interest rate decision. Equity futures
this morning up 4/10en of 1% on the
NASDAQ up by 0.8. [music] some
outperformance on small caps up by 0.9
encouraged by this move in the bond
market. Just taking a brever at the
front end of the yield curve. Two's down
by two 41390 encouraged by the move in
crude. Talked about this a [music] few
times already. Way off the highs of the
week already. 98 the high of the week.
92 this morning down by 1.7% on [music]
the session. As we cut you down to the
open and bow, let's talk about this week
ahead. What a week ahead we've got. At
10:00 a.m. Eastern time, a little bit
more economic data for you before the
headline act on Wednesday. CPI. On
Wednesday, we also get earnings from
Oracle. On Thursday, PPI, another round
of claims, plus an ECB rate decision,
which may well be [music] an ECB rate
hike. On Friday, some consumer sentiment
numbers and SpaceX set to begin trading.
Into all of that, let's talk about the
Federal Reserve. Nisha Patel of
Parametric expecting rates to stay on
hold for longer. She writes, "Inves
investors do not need an immediate
cutting cycle to like bonds." Nisha
joins us now for more. Nisha, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning. Good to see you.
>> If we get a hiking cycle, would you hate
bonds? I mean, that's the risk you face
going into your end. Now,
>> it is. And I think, look, I think that's
the long-term risk of being in bonds,
obvious obviously having duration um to
where you see that downside risk in
bonds, but I think we are fairly far
away from being close to hikes. Uh I
think where we are is look, this is a
big meeting. We've been talking about
this, you know, all week today. uh two
things. A change in the language uh is
going to be the most important takeaway
and I think that's fully baked in right
that easing bias is is likely to be
removed. Um but more than anything that
doesn't point to right the Fed being
ready ready to rate uh hike rates. This
is just giving the optionality back.
This is a communication reset. Um what I
do think the market is going to be
paying attention to is two things. Is
there a language statement also that the
Fed is worried about upside risk
inflation right now? Is that that may
not come into this meeting? Um but then
the second part of that what does
inflation mean? What does that meant for
consumer spending and real disposable
income? Consumers are spending that's a
good news. Real disposable income has
come down. So where this is really hit
uh is in that lower and middle class
right income earners and that purchasing
power. So my my uh I would say thesis
around the bonds, right? This provides a
good hedge. Yields are high. This is a
very different situation than 2022. And
so those the worry in my view still is
is that if you see some sort of a
deterioration in consumer spending for
all these reasons, um you now have a
growth scare, right? You have a growth
concern. It shifts from an inflation
concern to a growth concern.
>> Well, clearly they're not in a rush to
hike interest rates. I remember coming
out of GFC and we were obsessed with
threshold contingent guidance. Not just
time contingent forward guidance, but a
threshold to say we won't do this until
this happens in say unemployment. Can
you give us the conditions that we need
to satisfy in your mind at least for
this Federal Reserve to consider
actually actively hiking interest rates?
Where does unemployment need to be?
Where does inflation need to be to have
that consideration?
>> Yes. Um, so look, I think today we're
we're definitely in in a slightly one
directional move both on the labor
market side and inflation side. Um, as
much as the Fed has always articulated a
2% inflation target, uh, I do wonder
under WSH whether that slightly changes.
Is that 3% target acceptable? Seems like
that has been right over the past 12
months. That is what ultimately let the
Fed cut last year 75 basis points. So I
think a 3% range, a moderation of
inflation could be acceptable at a time
where you do start to see negative jobs
in payrolls numbers. Right now the last
three jobs numbers have been very
positive. Um over 200,000 uh each time
consecutively. Uh that is great positive
momentum, but I would expect again not
one data point, but I imagine three weak
labor market data points could
substantiate a case to where hey this
now becomes a growth concern, right?
Instead of in instead of an inflation
concern,
>> there's this idea that the Federal
Reserve under Kevin Walsh is going to be
less communicative uh perhaps uh reduce
its kind of forward guidance that it
does offer to the market at large. How's
the bond market likely to react to less
communication, less forward guidance?
>> Yes. Uh I imagine the reaction is not
going to be a good one because this has
been a bond market that's been very used
to uh very open communication and
transparency. So look, I I would think
that I think Wars first meeting, a very
big meeting. Um obviously there's two
avenues here. Um I think the market is
very closely going to be watching out
for that tone. um right this is the
first meaning to set credibility. So
does he carry on that transparency
um for the sake of right not giving a
shock to the market when you're already
possibly removing a a a langu uh
language on the easing bias um and
giving some some sort of kind of
optionality back on the table for rate
hikes. So I think my point is there
would be a lot to really cut back
substantially on that communication
right away. But look, we know that that
he's communicated. He wants the Fed to
be less communicative, less transparent.
Um, does not like the idea of dotplot.
So, I think that shift could happen over
time.
>> Perhaps that gives the market some time
to digest and accept this. Um, but I
think that would be a bold move to do
this right up front.
>> But at the same time, he needs to
perform for the president. That's what
Hamosen said, right? That he needs to
perform for a president who put him
there because he's out of central
casting, but also he's in favor of lower
rates. What kind of bone do you expect
him to throw to the president?
>> Uh, I I would imagine,
look, I I think this is where he will
likely kind of take out that easing bias
or they will choose to take out the
easing bias to appease the hawks on the
committee, but they may not really set
this up to say, hey, the next move is
going to be a hike. So again, it is all
about optionality that possibly appeases
the administration and anybody who's on
the dovish side to say, hey,
everything's on the table um at this
point and that that could possibly be
kind of where where this lands
>> as things stand, the market's leading
this Fed. This Fed is not leading this
market. That's the story of the last few
months anyway, Scarlet.
>> Yeah. The idea that the Fed is behind
the curve yet again. Um and you wonder
whether it's going to shake out the way
it did in the previous cycle when the
Fed had to raise with superersized rate
hikes.
>> Yep. Nisha, it's good to see you. Thanks
for being here. Good to be here as
always. Nisha Patel there of Parametric.
A special thank you to Scarlett Fu as
well.
>> Game three as well, Scott. So we
appreciate it. Thank you. You get some
sleep now and you
>> Well, it's okay. I didn't miss a a terri
I mean I missed a bad game in terms of
being a Knicks fan, but you know, we can
do it again on Wednesday.
>> Well, thank you for waking up early for
us. We appreciate it. Thank you. Scarlet
Fu here at Bloomberg from New York City
this morning. Good morning to you all.
Futures are positive going into the cash
open. We're high up by 0.4%. Coming up
tomorrow, we'll catch up with Steve
Chevron Federated. Jim Biano of Biano
Research, Gagi Chowry of Black Rockck,
David Kelly of JP Morgan Asset
Management from New York City this
morning. Good morning. Thank you for
choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.